Finding his usurpation most unjust,
Upon the next live creature that it sees.
Believe it better than reportingly.
my purse, I am yet thy debtor. Boy, go along with
For you have stol'n their buzzing, Antony,
If ever I were wilful-negligent,
To jump a body with a dangerous physic
From Claudio and the prince: but what's your will?
ashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
Shall have judicious hearing. Stand, Aufidius,
as the pomewater, who now hangeth like a jewel in
From glistering semblances of piety,
Thanks, good friend Escalus, for thy much goodness:
paring, and so dies with feeding his own stomach.
Your brother kings and monarchs of the earth
Oui. Sauf votre honneur, en verite, vous prononcez
To be adjudged some direful slaughtering death,
And say 'These wounds I had on Crispin's day.'
A dream itself is but a shadow.
Exeunt
To rain a shower of commanded tears,
Exit
Is't like that lead contains her? 'Twere damnation
confounded one the other, or have fallen both.
What's pity?
And brokes with all that can in such a suit
Thy tears are womanish, thy wild acts denote
[Within]  There's wood enough within.
And bear it from me to the empress.
What's that to the purpose?
Enter PHILOTUS
Here had we now our country's honour roof'd,
I am no villain.
But like a pleasant slumber in thy lap?
Ghost
O sacred receptacle of my joys,
could drive her then from the ward of her purity,
Otherwise I renounce all confidence.
From eaves of reeds. Your charm so strongly works 'em
My daughter's mother thinks it with her soul.
Unless a pardon ere I rise or speak.
one be a man of his own fancy, not to know what we
swore he would pay him again when he was able: I
Do not live, Hero, do not ope thine eyes:
Hath no man's dagger here a point for me?
Dark-working sorcerers that change the mind,
Yea, but not change his spots: take but my shame.
Look, what I speak, or do, or think to do,
'Zounds! how has he the leisure to be sick
That e'er was heard or read!
Our woes into the air, our eyes do weep,
We would not understand what was most fit,
But to himself so secret and so close,
Well, for two of them, I know them to be as
To love fair Silvia, shall I be forsworn,
To such a greeting: villain am I none,
Lord Say, Jack Cade hath sworn to have thy head.
At last, a little shaking of mine arm
A private whisper, no, not with such friends
The pommel of Caesar's falchion.
shall be honourable. I'll procure this fat rogue a
And loyal wife.
Upon our territories, and have already
He doth rely on none,
The form of plausive manners, that these men,
My lords, at once: the care you have of us,
And I    and now we three have spoke it,
a great man, I'll warrant, I know by the picking
Another hit, what say you?
The manage of my state, as at that time
The knight opposed.
May counterpoise this rich and precious gift?
Ay, with all my heart, and thou art worthy of it.
white and red.
This ornament of knighthood, yea or no.
And none but women left to wail the dead.
Young man, thou couldst not die more honourable.
Larded with many several sorts of reasons
Respect to your great place! and let the devil
And with Demetrius thought to have spoke thereof,
The Ghosts vanish
Would it apply well to the vehemency of your
Which trust accordingly, kind citizens,
Out with it boldly: truth loves open dealing.
Let him bless thee too.
At last, with easy roads, he came to Leicester,
Richard except, those whom we fight against
She looks upon them with a threatening eye.
If thou say so, withdraw, and prove it too.
Is it the king?
His filth within being cast, he would appear
the attempt I vow.
Naked in bed, Iago, and not mean harm!
And with the clamour keep her still awake.
And yet he rides it out. Now please you wit.
he's a better woodman than thou takest him for.
But wonder on, till truth make all things plain.
I'll fill these dogged spies with false reports:
Where dwell you, pretty youth?
I'll undertake may see away their shilling
But, sure, I fear, we shall ne'er win him to it.
the report of it. Well, Diana, take heed of this
Holy seems the quarrel
I'll not to bed to-night, let me alone,
That were a state fit for his holiness.
There shall be order for't.
Denmark, and those that would make mows at him while
Ah, in good sadness, is he, and talks of the basket
again. I go, sir, but I would not have you to think
I must away this night toward Padua,
Signior Baptista, you are happily met.
I do arrest your words. Be that you are,
To answer thy best pleasure, be't to fly,
To swearing and stern looks, diffused attire
To bear her burthen, whether I will or no,
and whatever praises itself but in the deed, devours
Meantime, have patience.
One drop of blood drawn from thy country's bosom
O, that it were as like as it is true!
Enter SALARINO and SALANIO
with such waterflies, diminutives of nature!
How now, my eyas-musket! what news with you?
Didst hear her speak? is she shrill-tongued or low?
ignorance, given your enemy your shield, think to
Alarum. Re-enter MESSALA, with BRUTUS, CATO, STRATO, VOLUMNIUS, and LUCILIUS
warn us!--matter, the cleanliest shift is to kiss.
Bedlam, have done.
This isle with Calibans.
We'll borrow place of him.
Now puts the drowsy and neglected act
Of egal justice, used in such contempt?
Ay, come:--O Jove!--do come:--I shall be plagued.
Press not a falling man too far! 'tis virtue:
Why, if thou never wast at court, thou never sawest
strength: if you saw yourself with your eyes or
The spring is near when green geese are a-breeding.
Not I, but my affairs, have made you wait:
So the were bleeding-new, my lord, there's no meat
What you profess.
Two mighty eagles fell, and there they perch'd,
We twain will go into his highness' tent.
And you.
Hence ever then my heart is in thy breast.
breakfast in the cheapest country under the cope,
That mightst have had the sole son of my queen!
It were a grief, so brief to part with thee: Farewell.
For nought I did in hate, but all in honour.
'Tis like a pardon after execution:
Collect them all together at my tent:
Pompey surnamed the Great,
Exeunt, marching
Enter EDMUND, and CURAN meets him
When you have well deserved ten times as much
Bishop, farewell: shield thee from Warwick's frown,
Call forth Nathaniel, Joseph, Nicholas, Philip,
Nay, these are almost thoroughly persuaded,
Lead me on.
Peruse this letter! Nothing almost sees miracles
My royal fox could reach them: I have seen a medicine
Shall witness live in brass of this day's work:
There, There, Hortensio, will you any wife?
To vow, and swear, and superpraise my parts,
For the repealing of my banish'd brother?
And sleep, that sometimes shuts up sorrow's eye,
Then he disdains to shine, for by the book
What became of his bark and his followers?
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
I have one friend alive, thou wouldst disprove me.
Hath not so green, so quick, so fair an eye
My boy shall fetch the scrivener presently.
Exeunt Tribunes
Yes: and you heard what the other told me?
But, leaving this, what is your grace's pleasure?
Shall stand sore charged for the wasteful vengeance
This article, my liege, yourself must break,
And I forgive and quite forget old faults,
Hyperion's curls, the front of Jove himself,
That judge hath made me guardian to this boy:
Are full of rest, defense, and nimbleness.
Be as thou wast wont to be,
I pray thee, sort thy heart to patience,
For a taste:
And I'll be sworn upon't that he loves her,
In a sweet verbal brief, it did concern
Into a bush: under which bush's shade
Take that, and He that doth the ravens feed,
Quitting thee thereby of ten thousand shames,
not ever sad then, for I have heard my daughter say,
Except to steal your thoughts, my gentle queen.
Popilius Lena speaks not of our purposes,
necessary and meet me to-morrow night in Eastcheap,
But what prevention?
But, with an angry wafture of your hand,
I will be patient, outwardly I will.
Until they hear the order of his death.
To shake all cares and business from our age,
Enter YORK
You shall hear from me still, the time shall not
Off with his head, and set it on York gates,
You are the better at proverbs, by how much 'A
Which comes to punish us, and we punish it
And feel I am so most. O Antony,
When, spite of cormorant devouring Time,
Hot lavender, mints, savoury, marjoram,
Ah, Gloucester, teach me to forget myself!
treacherous,
Rough-hew them how we will,--
Come on, sir.
and will she love him still for prating? let not
displeasure, neither to speak of him, entreat for
To wit, besides commends and courteous breath,
I was forced to scold. Your judgments, my grave lords,
At Ely House.
Then let it do at once
That ever Timon was. Shame not these woods,
Yet your mistrust cannot make me a traitor:
A heavy sight!
Improper for a slave.
That by no means I may discover them
not an eagle's talon in the waist, I could have
And write in thee the figures of their love,
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
What hope is there of his majesty's amendment?
Want mercy, if I do not join with him:
but the word 'noddy' for my pains.
But what thou art, God, thou, and I do know,
Yes, as I love the woman that wrong'd him.
Give your worship good morrow.
Tillyvally. Lady!
Believe me, cousin Gloucester,
'Tis one of the best discretions of a 'oman as ever
Thy hopeful service perish too: good Cromwell,
By all the reverend fathers of the land
every thing that an honest man should not have, what
'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.
Indeed! ay, indeed: discern'st thou aught in that?
And lo, where George of Clarence sweeps along,
It might have since been answer'd in repaying
Now, York, or never, steel thy fearful thoughts,
How does your lady? and how thrives your love?
Peradventure this is not Fortune's work neither, but
I'll fetch them, sir.
As it doth me--a nobler sir ne'er lived
Found that the issue was not his begot,
That shake not, though they blow perpetually.
To change true rules for old inventions.
hast caused printing to be used, and, contrary to
I will be found most cunning in my patience,
Ay, if the devil tempt thee to do good.
Hang in the air a thousand leagues from hence,
Precious, celestial? Wherefore speaks he this
the blessed sun of heaven prove a micher and eat
What is 't o'clock?
It shall be with such strict and severe covenants
Thus answer I in the name of Benedick,
And pass them current too. God's me, my horse!
I know you by the waggling of your head.
But qualify the fire's extreme rage,
March. Enter WARWICK, MONTAGUE, and their army
Of disobedience, or unduteous title,
Shall be the war that Henry means to use.
We'll no more meet, no more see one another:
Now the wasted brands do glow,
This is the fruit of rashness! Mark'd you not
Away! the tribunes do attend you: arm yourself
all the country is laid for me, but now am I so
That hast deceived so many with thy vows?
My peace we will begin. And, Caius Lucius,
Will rush into the state: it cannot be.
Her nurse is privy: and, if aught in this
Think on thy Proteus, when thou haply seest
is very well, what he has spoke to me, that is well,
Which the most precious square of sense possesses,
I come not, friends, to steal away your hearts:
Why, you are nothing then: neither maid, widow, nor wife?
O, did he so? I charge you, go with me.
Yet I'll move him
Singing
SCENE IX. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
Gifts of rich value. Yet I have not seen
To scarlet indignation and bedew
What follows if we disallow of this?
Enter AARON, with a bag of gold
Did you find me in yourself, sir? or were you
[Aside]  For all this same, I'll hide me hereabout:
As will a chestnut in a farmer's fire?
As this is false he burdens me withal!
Duke Frederick, hearing how that every day
They do abuse the king that flatter him:
To you and your behests, and am enjoin'd
To tell you plain, I had rather lie in prison.
Which for this nineteen years we have let slip,
'Twill bring you gain, or perish on the seas.
With meditations lawful?
Never to lie and take his natural rest
And once again, a pot o' the smallest ale.
If not, the city being but of small defence,
When, after execution, judgment hath
Heaven hath through me restored the king to health.
what remedy? As there is no true cuckold but
In taint of our best man. No, make a lottery,
That for thine own gain shouldst defend mine honour?
Yet it shall come from me to do thee good.
married and have more occasion to know one another,
The sun's o'ercast with blood: fair day, adieu!
Varro's Servant	I could render one.
Tut! our horses they shall not see: I'll tie them
daylight! an 'twere dark, you'ld close sooner.
As gaming, my lord.
'In witness whereof the parties interchangeably'--
Uncomfortable time, why camest thou now
presence still smile, dear my sweet, I prithee.'
hard as steel.
And I of him will gather patience.
Setting aside his high blood's royalty,
Have left their places vacant, in their rooms
Ay, to eleven, and brought them down again. But
'Sblood, but you will not hear me:
For it shall strew the footsteps of my rising.
Ay, good my lord, for purposely therefore
We'll bring him to his house
And, for this night, we'll fast for company:
And every one doth call me by my name.
With envious looks, laughing at thy shame,
Where death is sure. Yon ribaudred nag of Egypt,--
And such protest of pepper-gingerbread,
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
And smell of calumny. I have begun,
Ay, rather than I'll shame my mother's womb.
his hands.
big enough for him otherwise he might put on a hat,
Why, what tumultuous clamour have we here?
Proteus, I thank thee for thine honest care,
As never did the clergy at one time
Arm, gentlemen, to arms! for I have thrown
Master, be wise: an if you give it her,
Sleeves, hail kissing-comfits and snow eringoes, let
More fertile-fresh than all the field to see,
Hear a little further
SCENE XII. Another part of the same.
Subscribe to your deep oaths, and keep it too.
[Within]  If thy name be call'd Luce--Luce, thou hast
That he's so slightly valued in his messenger,
God save King Harry, unking'd Richard says,
Where biting cold would never let grass grow,
Exit Moonshine
Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight.
Since the physician at your father's died?
shall fall in love with Benedick, and I, with your
Can the world buy such a jewel?
Exeunt
Laid them before you, you would throw them off,
That hath express'd himself in all his deeds
man, I would have you think so, but, on my
And with this horrible object, from low farms,
Do you not remember, a' saw a flea stick upon
Alas, it is the baseness of thy fear
shepherd, from whose simplicity I think it not
compulsion, I.
Their mercy at the price of one fair word,
tricks which sorrow shoots
If he, compact of jars, grow musical,
Bear with me, I am hungry for revenge,
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
Hang 'em, slaves! I do not think the knight would
for, by gar, me vill have it.
A space whose every cubit
Hast prisoner held, fetter'd in amorous chains
SCENE VII. London. The palace.
What is between you? give me up the truth.
Nor fear of bad success in a bad cause,
I prithee, speak, we will not trust our eyes
And where care lodges, sleep will never lie,
Thy sister's naught: O Regan, she hath tied
The queen with all the northern earls and lords
The rate of usance here with us in Venice.
He is my prisoner, and you shall not have him.
Our appertainments, visiting of him:
The sweat of industry would dry and die,
gentleman of all temperance. But leave we him to
Faint-hearted boy, arise, and look upon her.
You say you do not know the lady's mind:
We will awake him and be sure of him.
hate a drunken rogue.
Exit
Pompey is moved. More Ates, more Ates! stir them
I doubt not, I, but we shall soon persuade
even out of that will I cause these of Cyprus to
camest thou to be the siege of this moon-calf? can
Loved as he loves himself: even now I met him
O God! they did me too much injury
Now God in heaven forbid!
[Reads]  'sorted and consorted, contrary to thy
And could of men distinguish, her election
If your grace
And pardon me, my gentle Gratiano,
Thy better must.
CLEOPATRA kneels
An age of poverty, from which lingering penance
Five moons!
Do not believe it. Fewness and truth, 'tis thus:
ANTIPHOLUS
Didst thou deliver to me on the mart.
Now fare you well, good sir.
Didst thou not say he lied?
As he stood by whilst I, his forlorn duchess,
Neglect the visitation of my friends.
To comfort thee, though thou art banished.
Should have a back or second, that might hold,
I thank thee for thy care and honest pains.
Gentlemen.
I hope the king made peace with all of us
And turn the force of them upon thyself.
been into Thames, ere I will leave her thus. Her
I am very glad of it: I'll plague him, I'll torture
Reply, reply.
What concern they?
Parted our fellowship--But, hark! a sail.
For many men that stumble at the threshold
Which woo'd the slimy bottom of the deep,
O me, lieutenant! what villains have done this?
benevolence to make atonements and compremises
Teach me, thy tempted subject, to excuse it!
Seeing the body
Alas, I blame you not, for you are mortal,
O, you give me ill counsel.
swears he'll turn me away.
Why?
Do not, as some ungracious pastors do,
Fetch Desdemona hither.
With such a careless force and forceless care
the count, have I run into this danger. Yet who
Our gracious brother, I will go with them:
Then were they chosen: in a better hour,
Look to your babe, my lord, 'tis yours:
He that dies pays all debts: I defy thee. Mercy upon us!
More like a soldier than a man o' the church,
Is he not jealous?
SCENE VI. Wales. Before the cave of Belarius.
appertaining to thy young days, which we may
In reckoning up the several devils' names
Is wander'd forth, in care to seek me out
Exit Luciana
In England and in Ireland, not confessing
By tasting of our wrath? How of descent
May here find truth too. Those that come to see
Then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars.
And you but waste your words.
Stay we no longer, dreaming of renown,
She sat like patience on a monument,
a kinsman not past three quarters of a mile hence,
Now I know you better.
What lets but one may enter at her window?
So did our looks.
Then love me, Rosalind.
Thou gavest thine ears like tapsters that bid welcome
'What shall befall the Duke of Somerset?'
Our Perdita is found.
The gods to their dear shelter take thee, maid,
Hath stopp'd the passage where thy words should enter.
Take away the conqueror, take away Alisander.
With him my son, Lord John of Lancaster,
Ere twice the horses of the sun shall bring
Alas, the part I had in Woodstock's blood
ambitious, his gait majestical, and his general
Howsoever you have been his liar, as you say you
O, no, my nephew must not know, Sir Richard,
To bring my whole cause 'fore his holiness,
In them and in ourselves our safety lies.
That mothers shall but smile when they behold
Shall shine from far
right-hand file? do you?
These present wars shall find I love my country,
The wheel is come full circle: I am here.
mark it. You say right, sir: o' Monday morning,
let him take her simply, the wealth I have waits on
Away, my masters! trouble us no more,
According to the fair play of the world,
I will knog your urinals about your knave's cockscomb
ACT III
Drum within
With wit or steel?
Let shame come when it will, I do not call it:
Born in a tempest, when my mother died,
Hath broke his staff, resign'd his stewardship,
See, who comes here?
To be so moral when he shall endure
Hath been my kinsman! O sweet Juliet,
My oil-dried lamp and time-bewasted light
thy conscience flies out.
And did not I in rage depart from thence?
His present reconciliation take,
mother, and to Master Peascod, your father. Good
To whom, my lord?
How many inches doth fill up one mile.
My gentle Phebe bid me give you this:
That most ingrateful boy there by your side,
Are levying powers: we must straight make head:
In dear employment: therefore hence, be gone:
To foreign casualties, gave her dear rights
The evil that thou causest to be done,
swear that I have a poor pennyworth in the English.
Come on, sir, hold.
Such as she says my lord did say I was.
My part of death, no one so true
And I am mean indeed, respecting you.
The one my duty owes, but my fair name,
Reverend sir,
And pardon, father, for I knew not thee!
Go you before to Gloucester with these letters.
Come apace, good Audrey: I will fetch up your
His highness shall speak in, I do beseech
You barely leave our thorns to prick ourselves
The star is fall'n.
In conflict that you get the sun of them.
Exit
Besides, this place is famous for the creatures
Here is my hand for my true constancy,
this but as an essay or taste of my virtue.
place till some certain shot be paid and the hostess
DON
Both are my kinsmen, and I love them both:
Of great estate, of fresh and stainless youth,
Exeunt
Is it for him you do envy me so?
Yet ask.
Go thither, and, with unattainted eye,
To hear him named, and cannot come to him.
Again shall you be mother to a king,
And follow thee my lord throughout the world.
Nay, hear them, Antony:
Quiet thy cudgel, thou dost see I eat.
Thou'rt a scholar, let us therefore eat and drink.
And with his arms outstretch'd, as he would fly,
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
Shall still be doubled on her: truth shall nurse her,
Determine for her, for Caesar cannot live
RICHARD
Passing through nature to eternity.
Pray you, let's hear.
As hotly and as nobly with thy love
But 'tis not so.
But yet to me they are strong. The queen his mother
Giving it to KATHARINE
lyingest knave in Christendom. What! I am not
The patroness of heavenly harmony:
That for our gold we may provision have,
His body will I bear unto the king:
Some griefs are med'cinable, that is one of them,
In time we hate that which we often fear.
O monstrous! eleven buckram men grown out of two!
Enter a Messenger
If Venus or her son, as thou dost know,
I left him almost speechless, and broke out
Where hast thou been, my heart? Dost thou hear, lady?
O, I have read it: it is heresy. Have you no more to say?
Whose arms gave shelter to the princely eagle,
If the living be enemy to the grief, the excess
Have ears more deaf than adders to the voice
The French exclaim'd, the devil was in arms,
There is my pledge, accept it, Somerset.
Was he met there? his train? Camillo with him?
Come on, I say, and first begin with her.
Say he is sick.
I'll to my queen and beg her Indian boy,
So many thousand times? Go, counsellor,
Is it possible?
Bolder, though not so subtle. My valour's poison'd
And won her soul, and she, sweet lady, dotes,
Lo, now, if it lay in their hands to make me a
A crow without feather? Master, mean you so?
Something to save thy life.
Niece, will you look to those things I told you of?
O, he's a lovely gentleman!
As himself pleased, and they were ratified
should not pass here, no, though it were as virtuous
looked to, without any tricks.
No, sir, 'tis in grain, Noah's flood could not do it.
Leave thy lascivious wassails. When thou once
As to Jove's statue, and the commons made
I'ld whistle her off and let her down the wind,
you, as you shall desire in a summer's day. Here is
I think it well, my lord.
As we have, such. This gallant which thou seest
Why then, belike, he likes it not, perdy.
The Jove of power make me most weak, most weak,
Look, when I serve him so, he takes it ill.
Exit BOYET
Ay, mother, but I would not have it so.
Doth make an earthquake of nobility.
What hast thou done, unnatural and unkind?
Yet blessing on his heart that gives it me!
Yet will I add an honour, a great patience.
eyes of Troilus. Ne'er look, ne'er look: the eagles
Solemn music
And, if you love me, as I think you do,
The sons of York, thy betters in their birth,
What sudden anger's this? how have I reap'd it?
I'll tell the news. Here comes the general.
Drive you to break your necks or hang yourselves!
Sirrah, tell my gentlewoman I would speak with her,
The daintiest last, to make the end most sweet:
And that's not suddenly to be perform'd,
come, make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio, tell
And occupations perish!
O, wonder!
I'll speak to thee in silence.
Lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd,
How doth the prince, and my young son of York?
and moves with its own organs: it lives by that
Go, tread the path that thou shalt ne'er return.
And safely brought to Dover, where inshipp'd
Are you sure of that?
him as a present to Mistress Silvia from my master,
Yet this good comfort bring I to your grace,
If I in act, consent, or sin of thought,
In maiden meditation, fancy-free.
To press before thy father to a grave?
As great in admiration as herself,
My very soul of counsel! stop my mouth.
Truly, sir, I would desire you to clap into your
Thy name in arms were now as great as mine!
Then have my lips the sin that they have took.
Please it our general to pass strangely by him,
I would your grace would give us but an hour
And manhood is call'd foolery, when it stands
You would have bid me argue like a father.
Stabs him
Enter ACHILLES
Exit
Thy paleness moves me more than eloquence,
SCENE III. The same.
circumstance: that which you hear you'll swear you
most dreadful thing, for there is not a more fearful
SCENE II. A room in CORIOLANUS'S house.
Amen. Whereupon I will show you a chamber with a
What minstrelsy, and pretty din,
By this hand, they are scoundrels and subtractors
Re-enter FALSTAFF
And orphans for their parents timeless death--
March afar off
God quit you in his mercy! Hear your sentence.
And on the winking of authority
Nay, if you stare, we shall hear more anon.
ACT V
With some diffused song: upon their sight,
Such proclamation hath been made, my liege.
If souls guide vows, if vows be sanctimonies,
I tell thee what: get thee to church o' Thursday,
But then the mind much sufferance doth o'er skip,
RICHARD
Made by some other deity than nature,
Exit
speed well in it, the duke shall both speak of it.
Thy garments are not spotted with our blood,
sleep in thy sheath, I beseech God on my knees thou
Enter ROSALIND and CELIA
Yea, or to-night.
She is not worth thee, then. What years, i' faith?
No, no, no, no! Come, let's away to prison:
Ford differs! To thy great comfort in this mystery
Come hither, boy, come, come, and learn of us
O, tell me when my lips do touch his cheeks,
Well, and how?
Well, sit we down,
Your presence needs must puzzle Antony,
You called me yesterday mountain-squire, but I will
If thou didst know me, thou wouldest talk with me.
were, durst not, look you, sir, show themselves, as
And shall the figure of God's majesty,
The gods best know,--
False, we have given thee faces.
Opposed, as it must be, by the power of the king:
By gentlemen at hand.
So long as heaven and nature lengthens it.
With an invisible and subtle stealth
up the meat, the two crowns of the egg. When thou
Becomes a warlike people, whom we reckon
moved my lord on his behalf, and hope all will be well.
Should yet say 'Sir, no going.' Verily,
clients: though you change your place, you need not
That is the chain, sir, which you had of me.
Poor Desdemona! I am glad thy father's dead:
Exeunt LUCIO and Gentlemen
Some salve for perjury.
Enter SIR RICHARD VERNON
Indeed he hath played on his prologue like a child
whips the dogs: 'Friend,' quoth I, 'you mean to whip
I'll speak of her no more, nor of your children,
Shall understand it presently.
I fear, too early: for my mind misgives
Leave thy drink and thy whore,
Ay, my good lord, your royal preparation
Yet their own authors faithfully affirm
the truth of his words, but they do no more adhere
Be it so! Amen!
They have not been commanded, mighty sovereign:
honesty, my mask, to defend my beauty, and you, to
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do,'
To quit the penalty and to ransom him.
Murder of Gonzago?
Let me live here ever,
But the main grief springs from the loss
I am in this earthly world, where to do harm
Call in more women. When I am dead, good wench,
Why, hear you, my masters: was it for me to kill the
Some to the wars, to try their fortune there,
The breath of worldly men cannot depose
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Or doth this churlish superscription
Enter HECTOR
What shall be done to him?
What, what, what!
particular prosperity, and love thee no worse than
But here's a parchment with the seal of Caesar,
That's clapp'd upon the court-gate.
For, being not propp'd by ancestry, whose grace
Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood,
I pray thee, let us go and find him out
You'll not confess, you'll not confess.
For none offend where all alike do dote.
You had only in your silent judgment tried it,
Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
I have too few to take my leave of you,
How much unlike my hopes and my deservings!
My lord, dispatch, read o'er these articles.
Have not devised this slander, I'll be hang'd else.
He tires betimes that spurs too fast betimes,
If this be so, the gods do mean to strike me
Expound unto me, boy.
O constancy, be strong upon my side,
DON
PAULINA draws a curtain, and discovers HERMIONE standing like a statue
That drive thee from the sportive court, where thou
Re-enter KING LEAR with GLOUCESTER
What may it be? You do not doubt my faith, sir?
I will, my lord. Come on, sirrah, off with your
Than a graced palace. The shame itself doth speak
That we have given him cause.
Who are you? Tell me, for more certainty,
The sternness of his presence?
Windsor leads a better life than she does: do what
Beshrew the winners, for they play'd me false!
Farewell, my lord.
Whilst emulation in the army crept:
Hear me, good brother.
la truie lavee au bourbier,' thou makest use of any thing.
Music plays. Enter two or three Servants with a banquet
Are not you grieved that Arthur is his prisoner?
In all that I can do.
Must stead us all and me amongst the rest,
Cassio!
To think but nobly of my grandmother:
Upon Good-Friday and ne'er broke his fast:
The shot of accident, nor dart of chance,
So can I name his faults,--
So he did, my lord:
She's dead as earth. Lend me a looking-glass,
And will not promise her to any man
So honour peereth in the meanest habit.
Obedience fail in children! slaves and fools,
Upon thy certainty and confidence
out of his swaddling-clouts.
How far you satisfied me.
Ay, my good lord: five talents is his debt,
Only deserve my love by loving him,
Good night, good night! as sweet repose and rest
Of nature's sale-work. 'Od's my little life,
And I will overhear their conference.
Will not confess he owes the malady
Go forth and fetch their conquering Caesar in:
I would prolong awhile the traitor's life.
Tying her duty, beauty, wit and fortunes
For death, for fine, or banishment, then let them
Let this my sword report what speech forbears.
Why, how now? ho, awake! Why are you drawn?
The sides o' the world may danger: much is breeding,
My lord, you shall o'er-rule my mind for once.
The County Paris, at Saint Peter's Church,
Are there such? such are not we: praise us as we
To his own use he keeps, and sends me word,
Remember, boys, I pour'd forth tears in vain,
melancholy, I did commend the black-oppressing humour
Your will be done: this must my comfort be,
To keep, until your further time of trial.
Come down, behold no more.
Here in Verona, ladies of esteem,
keep his house, and I wash, wring, brew, bake,
Giving a favour
Thou art a fool to bid me farewell twice.
Upon my party, I'ld revolt to make
Let all of his complexion choose me so.
A little more lenity to lechery would do no harm in
Enter GLOUCESTER, led by an Old Man
And nought esteems my aged eloquence:
Is it but thought so? what are they that think it?
His leg is but so so, and yet 'tis well:
Exit an attendant
O, do not do your cousin such a wrong.
He is not emulous, as Achilles is.
As true thou tell'st me, when I say I love her,
Here, under leave of Brutus and the rest--
And sometime comes she with a tithe-pig's tail
And ask him why, that hour of fairy revel,
It may well be,
were unhandsome, and being no other but as she is, I
Ingrateful, savage and inhuman creature!
And he shall wear his crown by sea and land,
She loves me, sure, the cunning of her passion
And moe corrivals and dear men
Pardonnez-moi, I cannot tell vat is 'like me.'
Comest thou with deep premeditated lines,
Re-enter Officers, with CLEOMENES and DION
As little joy, my lord, as you suppose
Nay, take my life and all, pardon not that:
surrender of his will but offend us.
I have.
I mean for your particular,--you had not
And triumphs over chance in honour's bed.
Keeping them prisoner underneath her wings.
that puts the world into her person and so gives me
From when this stream through muddy passages
true,--or thereabouts, set down, for I'll speak truth.
thankful! And when she went away now, 'Let this
Well, that fault may be mended with a breakfast. Read on.
Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
wear his sting? In his tail.
Most certain of one mother, mighty king,
Which do not be entreated to, but weigh
I would you had never seen him!
Exeunt
Let's yet be fellows, let's shake our heads, and say,
My lord, what I have done, as best I may,
Are  you mankind?
Reverend appearer, no,
Troth, and I have a bag of money here troubles me:
Thou must be made immortal. Where's Barnardine?
This noble isle doth want her proper limbs,
And that his friends by deputation could not
Or here I'll cease.
Stay, my Lord Talbot, for my lady craves
proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offences at
Pluck down forms, windows, any thing.
though I did.
Thy knee bussing the stones--for in such business
I will with patience hear, and find a time
Hath been beyond account.
Winner and loser?
idiot, patch!
As soul and body's severing.
If he be none of mine, my sanctity
An it shall please you to break up
adventure would counsel you to a more equal
Was as a scorpion to her sight, whose life,
For tender princes, use my babies well!
Than such a murder is.
And such a one do I profess myself. For, sir,
Come on, then, wear the favours most in sight.
So white, and such a traitor!
With those that have but little: this must be patch'd
Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.
Let me ask you one thing:
Death, that dark spirit, in 's nervy arm doth lie,
Many and hearty thankings to you both.
Nice longing, slanders, mutability,
Exeunt
Shall Rome,  and c. Speak, strike, redress!
Come, both you cogging Greeks, have at you both!
Heirs of your kingdoms, my poor house to visit,
favour to you,
My love, forbear to fawn upon their frowns:
But, cousin, what if we assay'd to steal
For thy conceit is soaking, will draw in
but forth to wash him in the Hellespont and being
Good wombs have borne bad sons.
I am content.
With wild wood-leaves and weeds I ha' strew'd his grave,
I prithee now, to bed.
cost me two thousand ducats in Frankfort! The curse
'Tis so, they are afoot.
Nerissa teaches me what to believe:
Though many dearer, in this bloody fray.
To do observance to a morn of May,
Yet god Achilles still cries 'Excellent!
Yet that is but a crush'd necessity,
You do him wrong, surely.
That's as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love.
Exeunt FALSTAFF and ROBIN
divers persons. I'll tell you who Time ambles
exploit: yet slight ones will not carry it, they
To set my brother Clarence and the king
And tell them that I will not come to-day:
I would they were abed!
Enter MACBETH
Than that of common sons.
Dared once to touch a dust of England's ground?
That knew'st the very bottom of my soul,
Unto a youthful gentleman of worth,
Give dreadful note of preparation:
And when that hour o'erslips me in the day
on a brick wall have I climbed into this garden, to
I do not misdoubt my wife, but I would be loath to
And with no less nobility of love
But, with the first of all your chief affairs,
A blister on his sweet tongue, with my heart,
Thy rage sham burn thee up, and thou shalt turn
Certes, she did, the kitchen-vestal scorn'd you.
If I be so disgracious in your sight,
He makes me angry with him, for he seems
A word of this. What, ho! within! come forth!
left arm, that I amazed ran from her as a witch:
One of the three to share it?
Why, there's for thee, and there, and there. Are all
That acts my words. The younger brother, Cadwal,
Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you,
A man of great authority in France,
Cyprus. Othello, the fortitude of the place is best
Is it not lawful, an please your majesty, to tell
I'd set my ten commandments in your face.
I shall obey you.
Had not concluded all. He wakes, speak to him.
There is your money that I had to keep.
O, who hath any cause to mourn but I?
In herbs, plants, stones, and their true qualities:
My cherry lips have often kiss'd thy stones,
For I am stifled with this smell of sin.
England we love, and for that England's sake
To ease the gnawing vulture of thy mind,
For this one speech Lord Hastings well deserves
Brutus will start a spirit as soon as Caesar.
an into their estimation and report: but he hath so
You're welcome, gentlemen.
Have their ingratitude in them hereditary:
Exeunt all but TITUS
A root of ancient envy. If Jupiter
Of all be hated, but the most of me!
As punishment for his most wicked life.
Here let us breathe and haply institute
In Helicanus may you well descry
Before King Richard in his royal lists?
Let me still take away the harms I fear,
loves not the common people.
That's strange.
Shylock, do you hear?
Till the disaster that, one mortal night,
To knit in her their best perfections.
That flies i' the purer air!
My duty then shall pay me for my pains:
shall hear how things go, and, I warrant, to your
If thou wert near a lewd interpreter!
That wore the imperial diadem of Rome,
Is an unlesson'd girl, unschool'd, unpractised,
And be not peevish-fond in great designs.
The title of this most renowned duke,
Than I of yours,
If for my love, as there is no such cause,
Than wife is to the husband? If this law
Boy, thou hast said to me a thousand times
How far brought you high Hereford on his way?
they would whip me with their fine wits till I were
Those palates who, not yet two summers younger,
time, there do muster true gait, eat, speak, and
Let me see, a fat l'envoy, ay, that's a fat goose.
Good, good, my lord, the secrets of nature
Our father's love is to the bastard Edmund
I holp to frame thee. Do you know this lady?
[To the Citizens]  Hence to your homes, be gone!
Now, in good time!
Should say 'Be good to Rome,' they charged him even
Have laid this woe here. O, 'tis pregnant, pregnant!
'Twill be two days ere I shall see you, so
Your husband is at hand, I hear his trumpet:
Are ye so hot, sir? yet, Pucelle, hold thy peace,
When inward joy enforced my heart to smile!
And rank me with the barbarous multitudes.
There's no disjunction to be made, but by--
He's coming, madam, I hear him.
Out of this silence yet I pick'd a welcome,
As we have warrantise: her death was doubtful,
Some airy devil hovers in the sky
Why then, rejoice therefore.
Forsworn my company and rail'd at me,
beguile the old pantaloon.
That fellow is a fellow of much licence: let him be
Come, sit thee down upon this flowery bed,
Who either by public war or private treason
I would I were a Roman, for I cannot,
Happy be Theseus, our renowned duke!
The Duke of Norfolk sends you word by me,
But your petition
shoe is my father: no, this left shoe is my father:
Your patience to you, and be well contented
My master, my dear lord he is, and I
He would have spoke to us.
And so far am I glad it so did sort
To enter publicly: him I'll desire
Here at the palace I will rest awhile.
To place upon the volume of your deeds,
He is welcome too.
of no better report than a horse-drench. Is he
Whoa ho! ho, father Page!
Who put my man i' the stocks?
That I may make his lordship understand
Among which number, Cassius, be you one--
house is better than this rain-water out o' door.
in buckram that I told thee of--
On pain to be found false and recreant,
And he requires your haste-post-haste appearance,
the eleven I paid.
Myself of many I am charged withal:
As potent as a lord's. Will you go yet?
man so bad as is thyself.
Consider of it.'
But falls into abatement and low price,
With mine own breath release all duty's rites:
Stephano!
Anon!
To keep his anger still in motion.
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
Exton, I thank thee not, for thou hast wrought
As living here and you no use of him.
O, why should wrath be mute, and fury dumb?
the alehouse. What miserable praise hast thou for
Enter a Messenger, hastily
Why bear you these rebukes and answer not?
[Aside to ISABELLA]  You had marr'd all else.
Though they had wings: slave, soulless villain, dog!
Do you desire?
His neck will come to your waist,--a cord, sir.
Exit
Give me your hand: you are now within a foot
The queen being absent, 'tis a needful fitness
Treason and murder ever kept together,
There is no terror, Cassius, in your threats,
But to the rest.
lest he knock that about yours.
God pardon sin! wast thou with Rosaline?
Where have you been these two days loitering?
thy fool to lie: I would fain learn to lie.
What say you to a letter from your friends
Away, fond woman! were he twenty times my son,
Shall from this practise but make hard your heart:
I am sorry for thee:
My blood begins my safer guides to rule,
It poison'd me.
treasons, makes me betake me to my heels.
immaterial skein of sleave-silk, thou green sarcenet
When icicles hang by the wall
When once he was mature for man,
Wishing it so much blood unto your life.
My father's loss, the weakness which I feel,
for a placket. I have said my prayers and devil Envy
Untied I still my virgin knot will keep.
Enter LAERTES and OPHELIA
E'en as the o'erflowing Nilus presageth famine.
Leave you! wherefore?
hide him. O, how have you deceived me! Look, here
Enter Attendants
Thrust thy sharp wit quite through my ignorance,
There is, there is.
Alas, three of Master Ford's brothers watch the door
To vouch this, is no proof,
That granted, how canst thou believe an oath?
Hear him debate of commonwealth affairs,
A grave? O no! a lantern, slaughter'd youth,
Spirits to enforce, art to enchant,
I have assailed her with music, but she vouchsafes no notice.
With all his threatening band of Typhon's brood,
Let me be punish'd, that have minded you
No way to fly, nor strength to hold out flight:
Like hardiment Posthumus hath
The perilous narrow ocean parts asunder:
As dear to me as are the ruddy drops
To stop the foreign spirits, but they come,
I care not, I, knew she and all the world:
Thy knower, Patroclus: then tell me, Patroclus,
And therewithal the best, or let her beauty
'Tis to be doubted he would waken him.
To do no contrived murder: I lack iniquity
Now, what says the world
A greater power than we can contradict
Sir, with all my heart. This worthy signior, I
When he was retrograde, I think, rather.
Reignier of France, I give thee kingly thanks,
This challenge that the gallant Hector sends,
Of equal friendship and proceeding. Alas, sir,
or no, the velvet knows, but 'tis a goodly patch of
should do for clients her fitment, and do me the
Ithaca full of moths. Come, I would your cambric
So pale did shine the moon on Pyramus
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
board a dozen or fourteen gentlewomen that live
The best way is to venge my Gloucester's death.
Exit
See, Caesar! O, behold,
to slomber, ay'll de gud service, or ay'll lig i'
You saw the mistress, I beheld the maid,
from my shoulder to my heel with no greater a run
From her propriety. What is the matter, masters?
willingly, let him make a carbonado of me. I like
gallants. We lost too much money this mart by being
I do not doubt thy faith,
Carry them here and there, jumping o'er times,
Than such a Roman.
Before you can say 'come' and 'go,'
Never so needful on the earth of France,
That so his sickness, age and impotence
The heart of brothers govern in our loves
Which is that adversary?
Nor showing, as the manner is, his wounds
His word might bear my wealth at any time.
That you may well perceive I have not wrong'd you,
That I may tell pale-hearted fear it lies,
ACT IV
From tawny Spain lost in the world's debate.
Lysander riddles very prettily:
Some squeaking Cleopatra boy my greatness
My Lord Ulysses, tell me, I beseech you,
All too soon I shall,
Thou that wast seal'd in thy nativity
Heavens bless my lord from fell Aufidius!
All ports I'll bar, the villain shall not 'scape,
He and myself
The expectancy and rose of the fair state,
not what to say. We will give you sleepy drinks,
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH, with her hair about her ears, RIVERS, and DORSET after her
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
Patroclus kisses you.
this starting.
You are loved, sir:
Art not afeard?
'Lack, good youth!
What observation madest thou in this case
Gentlemen,--
The marble pavement closes, he is enter'd
I am not Samson, nor Sir Guy, nor Colbrand,
Most like a soldier, order'd honourably.
Instructed by the antiquary times,
Yea, from the table of my memory
And from the ladder-tackle washes off
If thou so yield him, there is gold, and here
at home and be hanged.
For the most part, too, they are foolish that are so.
Lend thine ear.
And then a mind put in't, either our brags
just and his quarrel honourable.
Well, Brutus, thou art noble, yet, I see,
'Tybalt is dead, and Romeo--banished,'
Enter two Gentlemen
Ay, dat is very good, excellent.
O horror, horror, horror! Tongue nor heart
That love should of a sudden take such hold?
Nay, gentlemen, prepare not to be gone,
In general, journey-bated and brought low:
linguist and the armipotent soldier.
I will resist such entertainment till
His corporal motion govern'd by my spirit.
Exeunt Servants
O, look, sir, look, sir! here is more of us:
To alter me: I stay here on my bond.
Some god direct my judgment! Let me see,
For, look you, I may make the belly smile
You see this fellow that is gone before,
Do wound the bark, the skin of our fruit-trees,
hallowed and brought a benediction to the buyer:
Where did I leave?
bereave you o' the deeds too, if she call your
When triumph is become an alehouse guest?
O, let it not be said: forage, and run
Why have I patience to endure all this?
But, pray you, stir no embers up. Here comes
You have not been a-bed, then?
The mansion where!--'twas at a feast,--O, would
An old hare hoar,
She hath, and in that sparing makes huge waste,
Lord Cromwell of Wingfield, Lord Furnival of Sheffield,
Let her not strike me. You perhaps may think,
And we cast away moan:
Upon a stranger?
Sweet Oxford, and my loving Montague,
Search Windsor Castle, elves, within and out:
I marry her! what? a customer! Prithee, bear some
Knock you here, sir! why, sir, what am I, sir, that
With drink, sir?
So minutes, hours, days, months, and years,
Nay, you shall hear, Master Brook, what I have
Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it,
Sicilia cannot show himself over-kind to Bohemia.
But, mother, I am not sir Robert's son,
And the device he bears upon his shield
Marry, God forbid! the boy was the very staff of my
How now! do you hear this?
Was Ajax, call'd so from his grandfather.
Are those that often have 'gainst Pompey fought:
'Fore your queen died, she was more worth such gazes
Amongst the soldiers this is muttered,
Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,--
Strikes him
Then let them use us well: else let them know,
To think it was so? O, give me thy hand,
I understand not, madam.
Hue and cry, villain, go! Assist me, knight. I am
I deem you an ill husband, and am glad
But great men tremble when the lion roars,
Alarum. Hector and Ajax fight
Vere is Mistress Page? By gar, I am cozened: I ha'
Snail-slow in profit, and he sleeps by day
For, by the sacred radiance of the sun,
reserve it, how shall's get it?
This, general joy.
Give me the map there. Know that we have divided
A single thing, as I am now, that wonders
Our duties did his welcome pay.
It was his word: O, he would miss it rather
the meaning:
He looks well on't.
Sometime she driveth o'er a soldier's neck,
Grumio gave order how it should be done.
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
Or, if you'ld ask, remember this before:
His weary joints would gladly rise, I know,
Re-enter FLAVIUS, with the casket
From jealousy!
Sooner this sword shall plough thy bowels up.
There is my purse to cure that blow of thine.
recompense this long stay: feast your ears with the
Because here is a man accused of treason:
And one day in a week to touch no food
And, clasping to the mast, endured a sea
Those mouthed wounds, which valiantly he took
Exit LUCIUS
You to a love that your true faith doth merit:
That would be son to great Antiochus.
Conceiving the dishonour of his mother,
Ha! a drum ? Thou'rt quick,
And you degenerate, you ingrate revolts,
he keeps me rustically at home, or, to speak more
After your late tossing on the breaking seas?
Prove false!
Give me some drink, and bid the apothecary
There is enough written upon this earth
This but begins the woe, others must end.
inclination, after his undressed, unpolished,
And yet me thinks I see it in thy face,
Be well avenged, or till another Caesar
Shall cross the seas, and bid false Edward battle,
He is justly served,
We'll yoke together, like a double shadow
I am the last that will last keep his oath.
a woodcock too?
Ay, and allay this thy abortive pride,
Must court'sy at the censure:--O boys, this story
Away!
all things: I will tell you, asse my friend,
use his master so, being perhaps, for aught I see,
Alas, poor soul!
am so good a proficient in one quarter of an hour,
Where my poor young was limed, was caught and kill'd.
LAVINIA turns over with her stumps the books which LUCIUS has let fall
I will help you to't. But tell me true, are you
O, yes, I heard them all, and more too, for some of
The appetite may sicken, and so die.
Speak to them, noble Timon.
I warrant it is to knight you, captain.
Farewell, old Gaunt: thy sometimes brother's wife
What mar you then, sir?
The dozen white louses do become an old coat well,
Of reasonable affairs? is he not stupid
Come to thy grandam, child.
sure of it. To express the like kindness, myself,
Enter KING JOHN, PEMBROKE, SALISBURY, and other Lords
But that is not the question: the question is
We doubt it nothing.
But from this lady may proceed a gem
And fame in time to come canonize us,
Do you quarrel, sir?
losing of hope by time.
I lodge my wife, I'll go in couples with her,
Should not become my wife and England's queen.
the very ice of chastity is in them.
What are you there? Your names?
Both stile and gate, horse-way and foot-path. Poor
He was drunk then, my lord: it can be no better.
I did so, and went further, which is now
Not to come off, in his displeasure.
More than my dancing soul doth celebrate
Give me assurance with some friendly vow,
The sad companion, dull-eyed melancholy,
Seems much unequal: he's married to Octavia.
'It is as hard to come as for a camel
ape: he so near to Hermione hath done Hermione that
Ere you can take due orders for a priest:
Take this purse of gold,
That lies like truth: 'Fear not, till Birnam wood
Slanders, sir: for the satirical rogue says here
And therefore, personally I lay my claim
Against thy peace. Go with me to my house,
Only for saying he would make his son
And made defeat of her virginity,--
Why the wrong is but a wrong i' the world: and
A piece of him.
Urge the necessity and state of times,
Well, proceed.
A most delicious banquet by his bed,
SCENE III. The same. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
Set a huge mountain 'tween my heart and tongue!
When you come 'cross his humour, faith, he does:
Thrice hath Calpurnia in her sleep cried out,
For 'tis thy rival. O thou senseless form,
And though you took his life, as being our foe,
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
Say they know not, they cannot tell, look grimly,
He is my son, yea, and therein my shame,
Whilst I was big in clamour came there in a man,
I did not see you since you sent me hence,
As iron to adamant, as earth to the centre,
sword on thy side, and yet thou rannest away: what
He's gone, but his wife's kill'd.
your knees and make ready.
It does, my lord.
She may be honest yet. Tell me but this,
That turn'd your wit the seamy side without,
Raze out the written troubles of the brain
Go, then, for 'tis in vain
Which but attends thy naming.
And am right sorry that I must report ye
thunderbolt.
Enter a Messenger
Most sacrilegious murder hath broke ope
Persuades me I was better when a king,
The people do admit you, and are summon'd
Unseen, inquisitive, confounds himself:
And that you not delay the present, but,
No, I'll none of it: I pray thee keep that for the
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino,
Let your indulgence set me free.
And, whereas I was black and swart before,
I am at your grace's pleasure.
Yet, as we may, we'll meet both thee and Warwick.
Better cheer may you have, but not with better heart.
The bark is ready, and the wind at help,
Nor near nor farther off, my gracious lord,
to-morrow. By my troth, Isabel, I loved thy brother:
No matter who's displeased when you are gone:
Than where castles mounted stand.
Did verily bear blood?
Marry, sir, here's my drift,
To many lords and ladies, there will be
Ay, sir, to be honest, as this world goes, is to be
And charges him my lord, with such a time
Come on, come on, where is your boar-spear, man?
Follow me.
We will perform in measure, time and place:
Well, stand aside. 'Fore God, they are both in a
none of these mad mustachio purple-hued malt-worms,
How now, my hardy, stout resolved mates!
By the exaction of the forfeiture?
Enter HORATIO and a Servant
I would I had some flowers o' the spring that might
was. I will get Peter Quince to write a ballad of
I have some business.
Haste thee, for thy life.
You take pleasure then in the message?
A third more opulent than your sisters? Speak.
Enjoy mine own, the country Maine and Anjou,
Here: what news?
Come, lady, I will show thee to my kin,
And so tell your master.
And once fought with him: he was a soldier good,
His daughter meanly have I match'd in marriage,
Ursula, bring my picture here.
Well, I will thither.
That any of these bolder vices wanted
this man made you, sir?
When fame shall in our islands sound her trump,
That honourable grief lodged here which burns
Some devil whisper curses in mine ear,
I heard a child cry underneath a wall.
her as long as there is a passage in my throat and
I'll carry it to the pile.
And his great person perish.
I dare be sworn you were:
When well-apparell'd April on the heel
And leave my followers here to fight and die?
Let us, Lepidus,
Sorely, to say I did, it is as bitter
SCENE V. Gloucester's castle.
Who look'd full gently on his warlike queen,
In such a rein, in full as proud a place
Than Hector's forehead when it spit forth blood
Me tank you for dat.
Carthage?
The abject people gazing on thy face,
Hath he excepted most against my love.
Get me ink and paper:
I'll catch it ere it come to ground:
so likes your music, that he desires you, for love's
Folly in fools bears not so strong a note
No, by the flame of yonder glorious heaven,
That it doth hate what gets it.
never had any, or if he had, he had sworn it away
Shows a ring
Farewell, sweet lords: let's meet at Coventry.
Born in Verona, old Antonio's son:
Most sweet queen,--
But yet I'll go in hate, to feed upon
Therefore I tell my sorrows to the stones,
Like to a ship that, having 'scaped a tempest,
Antony,
It were lost sorrow to wail one that's lost.
How doth my lady? Is my father well?
That thou shalt like an airy spirit go.
Why, York, what wilt thou do?
Brother, the king hath made your nephew mad.
like. Our posts shall be swift and intelligent
Have one man but a man? And that is it
Thy spite on mortal flies:
Is my strict fast, I mean, my children's looks,
Look him i' the face.
If you swear still, your recompense is still
If this were played upon a stage now, I could
He spieth FALSTAFF on the ground
Think upon what hath chanced, and, at more time,
One who, to put thee from thy heaviness,
are to me nothing, so in nothing bless them, and to
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd,
That very time I saw, but thou couldst not,
But when he meant to quail and shake the orb,
confidence than her reputation: and, to bar your
Pray thee, fellow, peace: I do not like thy look,
I thank you for this profit, and from hence
Come, sister: I am press'd down with conceit--
The past proportion of his infinite?
With old odd ends stolen out of holy writ,
Was ever gentleman thus grieved as I?
To gaze upon the secrets of the deep?
would my master had Mistress Anne, or I would
That you elect no other king but him,
none to guard it but boys.
My honest grief unto him, and, as my lord,
Hear me, you wrangling pirates, that fall out
murderer dead,
Do seem to be of ours?
Helen, I mean.
Forgive my tyranny, but do not say
You do unbend your noble strength, to think
In this hot trial, more than we of France,
Fear not, he bears an honourable mind,
Are we all ready? What is now amiss
An arm as big as thine? a heart as big?
Thou hast so wrong'd mine innocent child and me
Exit
Of any penny tribute paid. Our countrymen
Come, sir, to dinner. Dromio, keep the gate.
I have forgot why I did call thee back.
More measure of this measure, be not nice.
To the king I'll say't, and make my vouch as strong
Come, vial.
Upon the hills adjoining to the city
I remember you, sir, by the sound of your voice: I
Three things that women highly hold in hate.
SCENE III. A field of battle between Towton and Saxton, in
Comes forward
he hath not yet made wanton the night with her, and
Here in this island we arrived, and here
doing much alone. You talk of pride: O that you
Alarum. Enter a Son that has killed his father, dragging in the dead body
How is't, my soul? let's talk, it is not day.
In confutation of which rude reproach
Enter MENENIUS with the two Tribunes of the people, SICINIUS and BRUTUS.
I am sure, sweet Kate, this kindness merits thanks.
As ever oak or stone was sound.
I must needs after him, madam, with my letter.
To hear Cominius speak, I'll keep at home.
With amber bracelets, beads and all this knavery.
before you came, for look here what I found on a
Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back,
Yet more quarrelling with occasion! Wilt thou show
Under the sweet shade of your government.
I mother, wife, and yet his child.
had rather:' your husband's here at hand, bethink
His absolute commission. Long live Caesar!
True, save means to live.
Hath not the ring upon it, it is gone.
Night hath been too brief.
Both her sweet hands, her tongue, and that more dear
In the sick air: let not thy sword skip one:
Betwixt ourselves let us decide it then.
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
Albeit I'll swear that I do know your tongue.
Yet here Prince Edward stands, King Henry's son.
And bid them blow towards England's blessed shore,
like my lady your niece: on a forgotten matter we
I thought you would not back again.
Beyond thought's compass, that former fabulous story,
So he would keep fair quarter with his bed!
When what is done is like an hypocrite,
By inspiration of celestial grace,
Go, gentlemen,
Come, stand thou by our side,
Therefore to our best mercy give yourselves,
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart
affirmation--his to be more fair, virtuous, wise,
Knock at my door, and tell me what he says.
Sir, I would speak with you.
Sir, praise me not,
If you advise it.
answer before him. If it be honest you have spoke,
Exeunt
sit till you come.
Exeunt
I have a good eye, uncle, I can see a church by daylight.
Hath he ask'd for me?
Gracious my lord,
At all acknowledge. For Polixenes,
Darraign your battle, for they are at hand.
Yields to the theft: had he been where he thought,
Thou coward, art thou bragging to the stars,
To hear me speak the message I am sent on.
But that I told him, the revenging gods
In her days every man shall eat in safety,
Well, the fuel is gone that maintained that fire:
Gentle my lord, sleek o'er your rugged looks,
Muster'd my soldiers, gather'd flocks of friends,
Fools do those villains pity who are punish'd
I have been studying how I may compare
Nay, master, both in mind and in my shape.
Lead to the Sagittary the raised search,
With shadowy forests and with champains rich'd,
Is spotless reputation: that away,
That any one should therefore be suspicious
But fare ye well: 'tis partly my own fault,
And minister in their steads! to general filths
Nay, then, I'll set those to you that can speak.
Then let's make haste away, and look unto the main.
I leave you to your wisdom.
Ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that
Gallow the very wanderers of the dark,
planetary influence, and all that we are evil in,
This scatter'd corn  into one mutual sheaf,
First, sir, I pray,
tailor make thy doublet of changeable taffeta, for
So can I:
bounty's foe,
Shame come to Romeo!
Have they been merry! which their keepers call
Much less in blood than virtue, yet a princess
Upon this jump.
let me have a child at fifty, to whom Herod of Jewry
Away!
Fear no more the frown o' the great,
you must go visit the good lady that lies in.
Unguided and unfriended, often prove
Too well, too well thou tell'st a tale so ill.
Say it, Othello.
Neglected my sworn duty in that case.
Takes note of what is done, and, like a prophet,
The word, 'Lux tua vita mihi.'
Uncle, what shall we say to this in law?
That might annoy my finger? 'tis so strange,
With golden promises, that, were his heart
As e'er I heard in madness.
Enter BLUNT
At your important letters,--this ill day
of honour, so belike is that.
Going
My people do already know my mind,
Good Doctor Pinch, you are a conjurer,
Lead on to some foul issue: we all kneel.
When you are better temper'd to attend.
Willingly,
My lord?
Be villany less than 'twas! O Imogen!
Will you sup there?
Aside to her
The poor mechanic porters crowding in
More than in words?
tales of me. I am bound to the Count Orsino's court: farewell.
Creaking my shoes on the plain masonry,
Mine eyes
That shows the ignorant a kind of fear
Not i' the worst rank of manhood, say 't,
Nor pluck it from his finger, for the wealth
natures more than is native to them--list me. The
devil knew not what he did when he made man
The gracious mark o' the land, you have obscured
some that take upon them to know, or do take upon
Urge neither charity nor shame to me:
You know your father's temper: at this time
To do him justice and revenge on you.
That do demonstrate thinly.
And fearfully did menace me with death,
thee for pity.
O Mistress Ford, what have you done? You're shamed,
the red-nose innkeeper of Daventry. But that's all
And pinch'd the lily-tincture of her face,
Or ere your pulse twice beat.
protest, I have dealt most directly in thy affair.
When I do weep, they humbly at my feet
Until I see the ring.
Be by some certain king purged and deposed.
That run i' the clock's behalf. But this is foolery:
revenue for ever, and live the beloved of your
Speak to me home, mince not the general tongue:
This is thy work: the object poisons sight,
Was to be so unwise, to be so kind.
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth,
To hug with swine, to seek sweet safety out
Ere you were queen, yea, or your husband king,
Shake my fell purpose, nor keep peace between
Exeunt
Ungovern'd youth, to wail it in their age,
To see inherited my very wishes
one-trunk-inheriting slave, one that wouldst be a
Why should Titania cross her Oberon?
O Hal, I prithee, give me leave to breathe awhile.
[Aside]  These be fine things, an if they be
That broker, that still breaks the pate of faith,
Against my child, my daughter Hermia.
But why, why, why?
Doth with a twofold vigour lift me up
Mine arms about that body, where against
Whither straight I'll lead you.
Ay, and Wall too.
Are arch'd so high that giants may jet through
No, nor of any shores:
So thou wilt send thy gentle heart before,
You do appear before them: if they shall chance,
Yea, mock the lion when he roars for prey,
Nor never write, regreet, nor reconcile
According to the phrase or the addition
Your grace,
Nor when thy warlike father, like a child,
Draw forth thy weapon, we are beset with thieves,
Your tender kinsman and to choke his days
Enter a Guardsman
Can justly praise but what he does affect:
We are advertised by our loving friends
spin for her living.
Happily, amen!
I think he is: but a greater soldier than he you wot on.
Enter DUKE OF AUMERLE
Beshrew me, I would,
world no injury, for in it I have nothing, only in
To this my fair beloved: therefore, I pray you,
That has a name: but there's no bottom, none,
ear can endure to hear. Thou hast appointed
To your proceedings, yet believe me, prince,
out says thou art a fair corse, I'll be sworn and
Your face, my thane, is as a book where men
Shall stain your brother: make your soonest haste,
soldiers, three hundred and odd pounds. I press me
Give me a cup of sack, rogue. Is there no virtue extant?
And with an unthrift love did run from Venice
Where art thou, proud Demetrius? speak thou now.
and your sister. Angelo had never the purpose to
Hang all the husbands
but for smelling out the odouriferous flowers of
thee, but being assured none but myself could move
Even for that I thank you:
capital? Tell me, for you seem to be honest plain
Do 't in your parents' eyes! bankrupts, hold fast,
From all such devils, good Lord deliver us!
Not to relent is beastly, savage, devilish.
give him some good counsel, for he seems to have the
Hector, in view of Trojans and of Greeks,
I' the parts of France, till term of eighteen months
Thou hast the most unsavoury similes and art indeed
So I lose none
How many weary steps,
Should rift to hear me, and the words that follow'd
O, no, good Kate, neither art thou the worse
That makes her blood look out: good sooth, she is
ANTIPHOLUS
Nor tell tales of thee to high-judging Jove:
Yon light is not day-light, I know it, I:
Gentlemen all, I do suspect this trash
Uncharitably with me have you dealt,
Are not with me esteem'd above thy life:
Why, what is it, my lord?
that she sends you to prison hither?
Gentles, do not reprehend:
make me tell them how much I lack of a man.
no sooner achieved, but we'll set upon them.
And princes not doin g so are like to gnats,
She spitteth at him
Marcius coming home!
Something hath been amiss--a noble nature
Why, that word makes the faults gracious. Well,
In Hermia's love I yield you up my part,
Sirs, take you to your tools. You, cousins, shall
very monster in apparel, and not like a Christian
I know they are stuff'd with protestations
A very tainted fellow, and full of wickedness.
were one. I would we were all of one mind, and one
But then AEneas bare a living load,
'I may command where I adore.' Why, she may command
me, like a double-meaning prophesier.
lady: shall I vent to her that thou art coming?
By many a dern and painful perch
Dost thou in conscience think,--tell me, Emilia,--
But died thy sister of her love, my boy?
Purchase the sight again of dear Sicilia
Curse, miscreant, when thou comest to the stake.
[To VINCENTIO]  Why, how now, gentleman! why, this
To hear from him a matter of some moment:
raised with it when I sit, driven out of doors with
And thy commandment all alone shall live
Pardon, master,
No, nor mine now.
That dare as well answer a man indeed
It yet hath felt no age nor known no sorrow.
So excellent in art, and still so rising,
enforced, for which he suffered death.
Here's a letter come from yond poor girl.
No nightingale: look, love, what envious streaks
made a little fault in 'Great.'
Flatterers! Now, Brutus, thank yourself:
You are like one that superstitiously
If you do say we think him over-proud
Dian's bud o'er Cupid's flower
Throca movousus, cargo, cargo, cargo.
To England will I steal, and there I'll steal:
Pray heaven it be not full of knight again.
My lord, where are you? what devise you on?
Peace, for shame, peace!
He is of a very melancholy disposition.
Accessible is none but Milford way.
To be a torment to mine enemies?
For I will slay myself.
Re-enter BOULT with MARINA
In his true nature, and we ourselves compell'd,
valour bear the sin upon their own heads. I'll take
Enter SOMERSET, with his army, a Captain of TALBOT's with him
And by a stranger!--No, he hath enjoyed her:
And I will strive with things impossible,
Go to thy lady's grave and call hers thence,
stands well with her.
If therefore you dare trust my honesty,
Sirrah, give place.
'Youth, whatsoever thou art, thou art but a scurvy fellow.'
She's a beagle, true-bred, and one that adores me:
Some of my shame, if you will know of me
That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
Must have inventions to delight the taste,
Brother, this is Sir John Montgomery,
You give away heaven's vows, and those are mine,
I shall pay dear.
Which tells me in that glory once he was,
And also, I think, thou art not ignorant
bestowed? Do you hear, let them be well used, for
content to say it was for his country he did it to
'Fly pride,' says the peacock: mistress, that you know.
I'll halt after.
After the prompter, for our entrance:
Not till it leave the rider in the mire.
Exeunt Serving-men, Mayor,  and c
Your infants in your arms, and there have sat
And that same dew, which sometime on the buds
It would have much amazed you.
Will e'en but kiss Octavia, and we'll follow.
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, EGEUS, and train
Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber:
Either she hath bewitch'd me with her words,
Brother,--
A thousand pound a year, annual support,
My lady goes to kill horns, but, if thou marry,
Whom he hath used rather for sport than need
SCENE III. Friar Laurence's cell.
Braved in mine own house with a skein of thread?
Behind the arras I'll convey myself,
SCENE I. The woods. Before Timon's cave.
O, good sir, softly, good sir! I fear, sir, my
An honourable murderer, if you will,
To the trunk again, and shut the spring of it.
Come on, Lord Hastings, will you go with me?
I have provided for you: stay awhile,
O heart, lose not thy nature, let not ever
She being none of your flesh and blood, your flesh
Together, to consider further that
A model which heaven makes like to itself:
Straining upon the start. The game's afoot:
brother are hard by, with the king's forces.
Look to the lady, O, she's but o'erjoy'd.
Enter LUCENTIO, HORTENSIO, and BIANCA
And I, my lord, will bear him company.
To celebrate the joy that God hath given us.
Laid open all your victories in Scotland,
After such bloody toil, we bid good night,
How now? moody?
civil and humane seeming, for the better compassing
That art incestuous: caitiff, to pieces shake,
Exeunt
Woe, woe are we, sir, you may not live to wear
ACT I
Ay, sir.
Bless him at home in peace, whilst I from far
What do you call the play?
Not to seem senseless of the bob: if not,
against my stomach. Hast any philosophy in thee, shepherd?
nearer to his reverence.
Do you your office, or give up your place,
Varro's Servant	What is a whoremaster, fool?
Until his ink were temper'd with Love's sighs,
Array'd in flames like to the prince of fiends,
Yet, ere thou go, but answer me one doubt,
Yet herein will I imitate the sun,
You must not dare, for shame, to talk of mercy,
Be strong in whore, allure him, burn him up,
you of some conveyance: in the house you cannot
And the place death, considering who thou art,
Drum and colours. Enter MENTEITH, CAITHNESS, ANGUS, LENNOX, and Soldiers
And that hereafter ages may behold
And that I love him not as I was wont.
The will of heaven be done, and the king's pleasure
Are pleased to breed out your inheritors:
That e'er I put between your holy looks
Valuing of her,--why, she, O, she is fallen
To cut the head off and then hack the limbs,
Acquaint you with the perfect spy o' the time,
You are princes and my guests.
So wilfully dost spurn, and force perforce
a fool you were upon the ground.
Come, he is here, my lord, do not deny him:
The curfew-bell hath rung, 'tis three o'clock:
As heart can think or courage execute.
As this world goes, to pass for honest.
Are pluck'd up root and all by Bolingbroke,
I serve you, madam:
What, and stake down?
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
Well said, adversity! and what need these tricks?
Thy God's, and truth's, then if thou fall'st,
This business is well ended.
shall have my pocket picked? I have lost a
With opportunity of sharp revenge
But, for the bloody napkin?
Thou idle dreamer, wherefore didst thou so?
With eggs, sir?
this head off from my shoulders.
Who knows if one of her women, being corrupted,
Re-enter JULIET, above
Lest, being suffer'd in that harmful slumber,
As it is here set down.
I have spoke it, and I did it.
rightly, is, 'I am Sir John Falstaff's.'
upon him, for my business seethes.
Against their will. But who comes here?
poor gallant knave.
And gave this sentence then,
If your more ponderous and settled project
Such dreadful heralds to astonish us.
It seems then that the tidings of this broil
I am not well in health, and that is all.
This proffer is absurd and reasonless.
Come, my masters, let us share, and then to  horse
The emptying of our fathers' luxury,
Or pile ten hills on the Tarpeian rock,
With Leonine, a murderer.
And taste Lord Timon's bounty? he outgoes
Beat thou the drum, that it speak mournfully:
Know, that to-morrow the last of many battles
I do not like her name.
Who, like a boar too savage, doth root up
Of the old rage: bear with me, I am sick,
More fresh in Julia's with a constant eye?
Out-sweeten'd not thy breath: the ruddock would,
That best becomes the table. Pray you once more,
Will not you?
Of health and living now begins to mend,
My words express my purpose.
He's but a country gentleman,
Exceeds, in that, the lists of all advice
Why, there is it: come sing me a bawdy song, make
Then walk we forth, even to the market-place,
desire is boundless and the act a slave to limit.
You, sir, I entertain for one of my hundred, only I
love thee.
So you thought him,
What I have done my safety urged me to,
Enter AGRIPPA at one door, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS at another
Exeunt
Content, and the argument shall be thy running away.
Why should she write to Edmund? Might not you
Or that or any place that harbours men.
How, sir! do you meddle with my master?
Therefore the earth, fearing to be o'erflow'd,
Marry, and did, but if you be remember'd,
[To TITUS]  Two of thy whelps, fell curs of
What said he?
You should not use me so.
discovered the secrets of your army and made such
Invited by your noble self, hath sent
When from the mountain-top Pisanio show'd thee,
Now, noble Charmian, we'll dispatch indeed,
Without some image of the affected merit.
Though time seem so adverse and means unfit.
In both your armies there is many a soul
you are false knaves.
Renowned Lucius, from our troops I stray'd
That fret the clouds are messengers of day.
Then in plain terms tell her my loving tale.
Proceed in justice, which shall have due course,
So long as I could see.
I'll not sleep neither: this mortal house I'll ruin,
For Mariana's sake: but as he adjudged your brother,--
A freestone-colour'd hand, I verily did think
Enter a Citizen
Had you not been their father, these white flakes
From my remembrance clearly banish'd his.
Proceed in practise with my younger daughter,
O sweet Oliver,
And, by my troth, I think thou lovest me well.
Since I am crept in favour with myself,
though they can outstrip men, they have no wings to
Forbear, Seleucus.
When blood is nipp'd and ways be foul,
Would fail her obligation: if, sir, perchance
Being come to knowledge that there was complaint
Audacious cruelty. If that the king
In open market-place produced they me,
I greet your honours from Andronicus.
'Yea,' quoth he, 'dost thou fall upon thy face?
Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking?
Will want true colour, tears perchance for blood.
In such gross kind?
As I have done, thou wouldst be more pitiful.
My lord is not my lord, nor should I know him,
you writ to Diana in behalf of the Count Rousillon?
As hot Lord Percy is on fire to go.
Pursue him and entreat him to a peace:
Sweeten the bitter mock you sent his majesty,
me to the semblance I put on, with the which I doubt
So, sir: I desire of you
Heaven will direct it.
And let us two devise to bring him thither.
And it I will have, or I will have none.
Well, what is it? is it within reason and compass?
It is no matter if the tied were lost, for it is the
Od's plessed will! I will not be absence at the grace.
And show like those you are. You, worthy uncle,
trim ones too: he is now as valiant as Hercules
On one part and on the other? Take it, God,
Ride on the pants triumphing!
This is not Brutus, friend, but, I assure you,
A false conclusion: I hate it as an unfilled can.
DON
Enter CORIOLANUS, MENENIUS, and COMINIUS, with Senators and Patricians
With variable objects shall expel
O, that which I would hide from heaven's eye,
For Suffolk's duke, may he be suffocate,
Be it so, go back: the virtue of your name
That what's else rare is choked, and in that point
Should die for ever.
the sea was my sister drowned.
In sign of what you are, not to reward
On business to my brother Cassius.
uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
And wolves are gnarling who shall gnaw thee first.
I see my son Antipholus and Dromio.
He was a king bless'd of the King of kings.
Whose end is purposed by the mighty gods?
[Aside]  I had rather lose the battle than that sister
We'll feast each other ere we part, and let's
What says Lucentio to this shame of ours?
Thus droops this lofty pine and hangs his sprays,
By the world,
Come not thou near me: and when that time comes,
You are so merciful: I see your end,
That Lepidus of the triumvirate
There's a strong fellow, Menas.
But words are words, I never yet did hear
My Lord Aumerle, I know your daring tongue
him: it must be a personating of himself, a satire
To call a present court of parliament.
What is a traitor?
Profaning this most honourable order,
To have his ear abused, wisdom bids fear.
So, sir, heartily well met, and most glad of your company.
O, pity, God, this miserable age!
If not, the Fates with traitors do contrive.
My gorgeous palace for a hermitage,
Master Peaseblossom, I shall desire you of more
Or a harlot, for her weeping,
Sirrah, were I at home,
That one day bloom'd and fruitful were the next.
Not poppy, nor mandragora,
Bardolph, am I not fallen away vilely since this last
Whence is that knocking?
Repair those violent harms that my two sisters
The instances that second marriage move
The Turkish preparation makes for Rhodes,
Well, I will undertake it. What beard were I best
A quiet night, and my good mistress will
Means and attendants and my loving greetings
Forego the easier.
lay aside the thoughts of Sicilia.
Wherefore is that? and what art thou that darest
To ease the anguish of a torturing hour?
is: and there's her thrummed hat and her muffler
ACT IV
And speak his very heart.
Give me mine angle, we'll to the river: there,
Should have ta'en vengeance on my faults, I never
His brother's death at Bristol, the Lord Scroop.
Do themselves homage: these fellows have some soul,
And was embark'd to cross to Burgundy,
And that your grace hath screen'd and stood between
You use her well: the world may laugh again,
'Have I no friend will rid me of this living fear?'
Till my attempt so much be glorified
Some tricks of desperation. All but mariners
Now, Bagot, freely speak thy mind,
them meet, that that same young Trojan ass, that
person, and much please the absent duke, if
Bring thou the master to the citadel,
Enter LORD BERKELEY
And promise you calm seas, auspicious gales
The voice of Cassio: Iago keeps his word.
With whom an upright zeal to right prevails
Good words the other day of a bay courser
Strike, drum.
O miserable thought! and more unlikely
Thou hast sworn my love to be.
Give me my steeled coat. I'll fight for France.
And bring some covering for this naked soul,
Harmless Richard was murder'd traitorously.
And underwrite in an observing kind
Fie on her! see, how beastly she doth court him!
Sir, you may thank yourself for this great loss,
Finds brotherhood in thee no sharper spur?
wit and it will out at the casement, shut that and
They that add, moreover, he's drunk nightly in your company.
The archbishop.
Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his trade, that
Against the invulnerable clouds of heaven,
Enter a rabble of Citizens (Plebeians), with the AEdiles
My work hath yet not warm'd me: fare you well:
What, you wrestle to-morrow before the new duke?
And, like a shifted wind unto a sail,
Let them set on at once, for I perceive
Shall we call back Northumberland, and send
Tell them that God bids us do good for evil:
That death and nature do contend about them,
Whom I with pain have woo'd and won thereto,
Therein, ye gods, you make the weak most strong,
And she shall be my love, or else my queen.--
Sir, your pennyworth is good, an your goose be fat.
if you pardon, we will mend:
And thinking of it makes me cry 'alas!'
And critic Timon laugh at idle toys!
To this unlook'd for, unprepared pomp.
Ay, be-gar, and de maid is love-a me: my nursh-a
Gaoler, take him to thy custody.
Doth limp behind the substance. Here's the scroll,
Brother, good day, what means this armed guard
As he will have me, how am I so poor?
Come, cordial and not poison, go with me
Once more, the more to aggravate the note,
But I can tell that in each grace of these
bombard that would shed his liquor. If it
Re-enter ARVIRAGUS, with IMOGEN, as dead, bearing her in his arms
Exit BIONDELLO
And the ear-deafening voice o' the oracle,
Not that, I hope, which you received of me.
Meaning, to court'sy.
virginity murders itself and should be buried in
Hear what I say, and then go home and lose me.
O Gertrude, come away!
Show me this piece. I am joyful of your sights.
Who can do good on him?
SCENE IV. The Boar's-Head Tavern, Eastcheap.
By all your good leaves, gentlemen, here I'll make
Enter AUTOLYCUS, singing
Sleeps
We o'er-raught on the way: of these we told him,
Why, madam?
I'll tell ye more.
the tune of 'Two maids wooing a man:' there's
It is the flesh of a corrupted heart.
sweet sewer.
The thought of them would have stirr'd up remorse:
many nicer needs, the last was the greatest, but
That play'd on her ripe lip, seem'd not to know
Entreat some power to change this currish Jew.
bestowed much honour on a young Florentine called Claudio.
The name of Antony, it was divided
With sweetest touches pierce your mistress' ear,
And the Phoenicians go a-ducking, we
'Tis but the fate of place, and the rough brake
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,
Come, come, no more of this unprofitable chat.
Return and tell him so: we know the worst.
And thy dear judgment out! Go, go, my people.
And set this unaccustom'd fight aside.
Some certain edicts and some strait decrees
Where I will walk till thou return to me.
O heavenly Julia!
Master Fenton:' this is my doing.
comest thou to beard me in Denmark? What, my young
It is the very error of the moon,
Hath sent you here this ring, and doth entreat
Signior Petruchio, fie! you are to blame.
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight,
Tongue, not a word:
This is the deadly spite that angers me,
Hath not in nature's mystery more science
Fears make devils of cherubims, they never see truly.
Hold you content. What, man! I know them, yea,
For the remembrance of my father's death.
Perfumes the chamber thus: the flame o' the taper
The roughest berry on the rudest hedge,
For, boy, however we do praise ourselves,
Till that a capable and wide revenge
I thank them for their tender loving care,
I will not think it.
Betwixt my love and your high majesty.
I scorn thy meat, 'twould choke me, for I should
Unclaim'd of any man. But who comes here?
I pray, my lord, pardon me, I took ye for my lord
Come, come,
Madam, with all my heart,
SCENE II. Corioli. The Senate-house.
As to peace-parted souls.
To one man's honour, this contagious sickness,
Here comes Brabantio and the valiant Moor.
Between my father and my mother lay,
I am about it, but indeed my invention
To strike him dead, I hold it not a sin.
Which I have told thee of my father's death:
The ruin of the state.
Thyself I call it, being strange to me,
By something showing a more swelling port
Must get a father, call'd 'supposed Vincentio,'
My mercy dried their water-flowing tears,
The greatness of his person.
Their armours, that march'd hence so silver-bright,
What's best to ask. Know'st him thou look'st on? speak,
I would not see't.
And drop into the rotten mouth of death.
Do villany, do, since you protest to do't,
So shines a good deed in a naughty world.
Wherefore, gentle maiden,
Cuts beauty off from all posterity.
'Enough, enough,' and die. That thing you speak of,
Exeunt
Our lodgings, standing bleak upon the sea,
True, made the lame to leap and fly away.
Sirrah, go you to Barthol'mew my page,
And my large kingdom for a little grave,
love perhaps a hackney. But have you forgot your love?
husband have stables enough, you'll see he shall
Enter MARIA
Dies
encountered: I hope it is not so low with him as
Come, offer at my shrine, and I will help thee.'
Good morrow to you both.
I'll hence forthwith unto the sanctuary,
Her advocate to the loud'st. We do not know
That I have blown this coal: I do deny it:
My country's good with a respect more tender,
As rich shall Romeo's by his lady's lie,
Nor curstness grow to the matter.
Restores his heart: when valour preys on reason,
And you that be the king's friends, follow me.
Therefore be gone, solicit me no more.
Perform what you command us.
This Edmund, in the reign of Bolingbroke,
My good lord, have great care
My Lord Biron, see him deliver'd o'er:
what's spoken, I swear.
To hold your slaughtering hands and keep the peace.
and reins well.
Yes, I do think that you might pardon him,
Then God take mercy on brave Talbot's soul,
O, break, my heart! poor bankrupt, break at once!
Age is unnecessary: on my knees I beg
What, not a whore?
To her that is not here, nor doth not hear.
Die, damned wretch, the curse of her that bare thee,
Ha! Portia!
I am glad of it, for now I shall have reason
Intended 'gainst Lord Angelo, came I hither,
tricks upon's with savages and men of Ind, ha? I
My lord the emperor, resolve me this:
It is thyself, mine own self's better part,
Enter three or four Servingmen, with spits, logs, and baskets
But see his exequies fulfill'd in Rouen:
O, that must be
Till one can do no more.
My lord, I am more amazed at his dishonour
Before that England give the French the foil.
thinking? Sure, they sleep, he hath no use of them.
And, of so great a favour growing proud,
Yet, as they are, here are they come to meet you.
So say I too, sir.
thanks: but that I will have a recheat winded in my
Direct me, if it be your will,
Sure, these are but imaginary wiles
He ne'er lift up his hand but conquered.
'Tis wondrous strange, the like yet never heard of.
When yet you were in place and in account
CARDINAL
If none, he'll say in Troy when he retires,
Even on that altar where we swore to you
It is not so with Him that all things knows
I pray you, have in mind where we must meet.
That I would set my lie on any chance,
To meet displeasure farther from the doors,
No, my good lord, he speaks the common tongue,
Airy succeeders of intestate joys,
on a recorder, a sound, but not in government.
Of all complexions the cull'd sovereignty
A gentler scion to the wildest stock,
Speak, of all loves! I swoon almost with fear.
That you are worthless.
The lees and dregs of a flat tamed piece,
nothing undone that may fully discover him their
If one good deed in all my life I did,
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
And not depending on his friendly wish.
How will the country for these woful chances
Out of mine own, his days and times are past
eyes! By so much the more shall I to-morrow be at
For one poor grain or two, to leave unburnt,
Then give me leave to go.
And, by my troth, you have cause. You'll sup with me?
I make you both protectors of this land,
one out of the table.
Such neighbour nearness to our sacred blood
Received that sum, yet there remains unpaid
certainty to be the king's daughter. Did you see
As the dog Jew did utter in the streets:
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
none but this.
But I will tarry, the fool will stay,
And, as we march, our strength will be augmented
Being a bark to brook no mighty sea,
but to the place where, it standeth north-north-east
Where's your father?
ready here hard by in the brew-house: and when I
Vell.
She is sad and passionate at your highness' tent.
knavery, mark you now, as can be offer't, in your
Betid to any creature in the vessel
You see this chase is hotly follow'd, friends.
A most extracting frenzy of mine own
Laus Deo, bene intelligo.
discover his government.
Nor I no strength to climb without thy help.
The shard-borne beetle with his drowsy hums
towards London.
To read a lecture of them? If thou wouldst,
every day. But, I beseech your grace, pardon me: I
Hail, lords! I am return'd your soldier,
Two may keep counsel when the third's away:
Your buskin'd mistress and your warrior love,
To get good guard and go along with me.
You have prevail'd, my lord, if I can do it
And let your fervor, like my master's, be
net.
Hath much deform'd us, fashioning our humours
If ever he have wife, let her he made
That are given for 'em. Friendship's full of dregs:
Who waits there?
dumb-show. Let us send her to call him in to dinner.
I do desire to learn, sir: and I hope, if you have
In that thou seest thy wretched brother die,
[Aside]  Shall I hear more, or shall I speak at this?
In sooth he might, then, if he were my brother's,
My clouted brogues from off my feet, whose rudeness
Whensoever he's convented. First, for this woman.
So worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom?
Be wary then, best safety lies in fear:
Then will I think upon a recompense.
Is that the naked fellow?
Must be to loathe her. O curse of marriage,
For native blood is counted painting now,
I shall be glad to learn of noble men.
[To SICINIUS]  You shall stay too: I would I had the power
Sticking together in calamity.
A velvet dish: fie, fie! 'tis lewd and filthy:
Exit
You perpetual-sober gods! I do proclaim
If it be so, Laertes--
And crows are fatted with the murrion flock,
Exit REYNALDO
And by the hazard of the spotted die
Tut, that's a foolish observation:
Or make my ill the advantage of my good.
Within these three days let me hear thee say
The duke is virtuous, mild and too well given
Didst thou not tell me, Griffith, as thou led'st me,
They are the issue of your loins, my liege,
Hot coals of vengeance! Let no soldier fly.
O no, he lives, but is took prisoner,
O, take her home, mistress, take her home: these
thought no less: that flattering tongue of yours
So long as hell and Richard likes of it.
If Marcius should be join'd with Volscians,--
possitable, if you can carry her your desires
My heart is ever at your service, my lord.
Look, here I have you, thus I let you go,
Richard, that robb'd the lion of his heart
Ay: saw you any thing?
Of our rank feud: but the just gods gainsay
Why, I am sorry for thee, gentle Silvius.
To die when I desire.
then look for your reward. I'll be at hand, sir, see
Which any print of goodness wilt not take,
Why, tis no matter, man, if they did hear,
I have no power to speak, sir.
Do I put up that womanly defence,
Our foster-nurse of nature is repose,
My boon I make it, that you know me not
Who spake of brotherhood? who spake of love?
Till which encounter,
I told your majesty as much before:
Sir, I shall meet your wit in the career, and you
No, nor Hector is not Troilus in some degrees.
I have seen the dumb men throng to see him and
Some dungeon.
And yet partake no venom, for his knowledge
Ere sun-rise, prayers from preserved souls,
One hour's storm will drown the fragrant meads,
ARIEL sings
Why, thou say'st true, it is a paltry cap,
While it doth study to have what it would
True, out indeed.
Why, she hath given you a letter.
Here stands the spring whom you have stain'd with mud,
Well, there went but a pair of shears between us.
How can these things in me seem scorn to you,
so plentiful an excrement?
Exeunt
The paper as the body of my friend,
[Aside]	It is my mistress:
Enter ROBIN
courted now with a double occasion, gold and a means
Thy sumptuous buildings and thy wife's attire
With one that wants her wits?
Speed how it will. I shall ere long have knowledge
In thy hand clutch'd as many millions, in
banish Bardolph, banish Poins: but for sweet Jack
Why that the naked, poor and mangled Peace,
wooing. But I protest to thee, pretty one, my
Better it were a brother died at once,
No more obey the heavens than our courtiers
Ay, a thousand times.
Witness my son, now in the shade of death,
Be not as common fools, if you are not,
But I have that within which passeth show,
Peace! we'll hear him.
Flourish
What is thy excellence in a galliard, knight?
Your vile intent must needs seem horrible.
Enter FLAMINIUS, SERVILIUS, and other Servants
Thou frantic woman, what dost thou make here?
peradventure prings goot discretions with it: there
O'er-run and trampled on: then what they do in present,
SCENE V. The same. A garden.
And bind the boy which you shall find with me
As from a bear a man would run for life,
I'll be so bold to take what they have left.
Yes, there is remedy enough, my lord:
Yet, for our gentlemen that mean to see
Earth gapes, hell burns, fiends roar, saints pray.
He that retires I'll take him for a Volsce,
For saying so, there's gold:
Villain, thou shalt fast for thy offences ere thou
Should we be taking leave
man i' the world.
To bury mine intents, but also to effect
You and your apron-men, you that stood so up much
High on a stage be placed to the view,
Vouchsafe me yet your picture for my love,
To use as you think needful of the man.
Exeunt
I hope, sir, I will do as it shall become one that
O king Stephano!
Exit FRIAR LAURENCE
As who should say 'I am Sir Oracle,
Heaven and our Lady gracious hath it pleased
Hark! now I hear them,--Ding-dong, bell.
what is thine?
May be a precedent and witness good
If York, with all his far-fet policy,
All these and more we hazard by thy stay,
My Lord Sands,
Remember, Jove, thou wast a bull for thy Europa, love
And I did give't my husband.
disposition, and out of his noble carelessness lets
I go. Write to me very shortly.
But the true ground of all these piteous woes
No, my lord.
'Tis most certain.
far, would have made nature immortal, and death
And have my thanks for all.
Why not on Proteus, as of all the rest?
Sir, we were talking that our garments seem now
But in plain shock and even play of battle,
I feel master's passion! this slave,
Madam, good hope, his grace speaks cheerfully.
An age of discord and continual strife?
I can bear my part, you must know 'tis my
I do remain as neuter. So, fare you well,
of Kent in Germany.
God-den to you all, god-den to you all.
Exeunt all but HAMLET
Be soon collected and all things thought upon
To be but named of thee. His meanest garment,
Hast thou no mouth by land? What is the news?
And down goes all before them. Still be kind,
In soothing them, we nourish 'gainst our senate
And try your hap against the Irishmen?
Lord John of Lancaster, go you with him.
And those who have the wit to claim the place:
The means that dusky Dis my daughter got,
Inform'd them! Dost thou understand me, man?
Her suit is granted for her husband's lands.
Some little memory of me will stir him--
Nor know I you by voice or any feature:
Shall not be long but I'll be here again:
But since your falsehood shall become you well
And that a winged Mercury did bear:
Farewell, father.
And will not use a woman lawlessly.
And he that got it, sentenced, a young man
In the cathedral church of Westminster,
Charles, I thank thee for thy love to me, which
You show too much of that
is now the general: may say so in this respect, for
Four lagging winters and four wanton springs
Shall tithe or toll in our dominions,
Than on the torture of the mind to lie
What sayest thou, Jack?
The merchandise which thou hast brought from Rome
Go on, and fetch our horses back again.
Then he hath wrong'd himself, if he be free,
And what he craves.
basket: I quaked for fear, lest the lunatic knave
command at all hours.
Than ever at one time the clergy yet
I have it, Tranio.
Ay, an it like your good worship.
O'erborne their way, consumed with fire, and took
Which thou thyself hast given her woful breast.
and so there is, but it lies as coldly in him as fire
Yes, without all doubt.
To change blows with thee for our day of doom.
I will forget my nature. So kind a father! Be my
of all cess.
be your tutor: suit the action to the word, the
I'll have some proof. Her name, that was as fresh
banished with her father?
Far from this country Pindarus shall run,
Sirrah, thou art said to have a stubborn soul.
Antony, Antony! Help, Charmian, help, Iras, help,
Which harm within itself so heinous is
And sped you, sir?
A kinder gentleman treads not the earth.
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with Lords
Not willing any longer conference,
No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a
stockings, and every officer his wedding-garment on?
And pluck the crown from feeble Henry's head:
heaven, I do love: and it hath taught me to rhyme
To DUKE OF AUMERLE
Hence with thy stripes, begone!
Every fairy take his gait,
Is an arm'd knight that's conquer'd by a lady,
Come, will you go?
Honour is cudgelled. Well, bawd I'll turn,
Our daughters' several dowers, that future strife
in this wise company? How dost thou, Apemantus?
So do I wish the crown, being so far off,
If it were, I deny her virginity: I was taken with a maid.
Of lullaby to bring her babe asleep.
Dead in his bed, my lord, Gloucester is dead.
Where fires thou find'st unraked and hearths unswept,
During the life of this old majesty,
The letter at Sir Toby's great importance,
He is a very proper man.
At Holmedon met,
O Clifford, boisterous Clifford! thou hast slain
And then to Rome. Come, Dolabella, see
And in the closing of some glorious day
counterfeitly, that is, sir, I will counterfeit the
Ay, the best for the worst. But, sirrah, what say
A long-tongued babbling gossip? no, lords, no:
not see her paddle with the palm of his hand? didst
What counsel give you in this weighty cause?
For thou wast got i' the way of honesty.
Of him, sir.
Ourselves, our wives, and children, on our knees,
Why, how now, dame! whence grows this insolence?
Err in bestowing it.
I have stol'n nought, nor would not, though I had found
Than when thou wert protector to thy King.
cooling when 'tis almost an apple: 'tis with him
Try what repentance can: what can it not?
Speak softly, or the loss of those great towns
To kindle their dry stubble, and their blaze
There's the moral. Now the l'envoy.
Ah, barbarous villains! hath this lovely face
Ay, sir, we are some of her trappings.
But Rosaline, you have a favour too:
For many so arrive at second masters,
A husband's office? shall, Antipholus.
Soon fall to ruin,--your noble self,
Well, lords, to-day we shall have our dispatch:
And so adieu, sweet Jude! nay, why dost thou stay?
After that things are set in order here,
one that takes upon him to be a dog indeed, to be,
And, as we walk along, I dare be bold
Our fatherless distress was left unmoan'd,
His kingly hands, haling ropes,
As deputy unto that gracious king,
On both sides more respect.
Sweet royalty, bestow on me the sense of hearing.
Talk like the vulgar sort of market men
O, come, let us remove:
Nay, my lords,
The fit is strongest, evils that take leave,
Have sold their lives unto the house of York,
Ay, or else I would I might be hanged, la!
Of thy sharp envy. Can no prayers pierce thee?
your reasons:
Exit
Made hard with kneeling, I do pray to thee,
Dies
Mad let us grant him, then: and now remains
For they have entertained cause enough
gluttonous maws.
As I with sudden and extemporal speech
Good my lord,
gown, having come from a day-bed, where I have left
And I would give his wife my bauble, sir, to do her service.
Room, ho! Tell Antony, Brutus is ta'en.
And quickly bring us word of England's fall.
Remains in danger of her former tooth.
The king doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
one man picked out of ten thousand.
They'll suck our breath, or pinch us black and blue.
grains of wheat hid in two bushels of chaff: you
He that shall live this day, and see old age,
Awake, awake, English nobility!
Put this in any liquid thing you will,
Who, falling in the flaws of her own youth,
This letter from Bellario doth commend
Thou didst accuse him of incontinency,
I take this offer, then, pay the bond thrice
Did he write this?
Bastards and all.
There is no vice so simple but assumes
I would, false murderous coward, on thy knee
How he refell'd me, and how I replied,--
As is the difference betwixt day and night
More than a spinster, unless the bookish theoric,
What, one good in ten? you corrupt the song, sirrah.
window, for all this, There will come a Christian
What lady would you choose to assail?
Now does my project gather to a head:
Upon the wild sea banks and waft her love
There, take it, and much thanks for my good cheer.
With strange invention: but of that to-morrow,
And beg thy pardon ere he do accuse thee.
And I thus humble ever.
And, notwithstanding all this loss of blood,
I knew she would.
Tell me, good grandam, is our father dead?
Shall they see us?
Dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey.
There's thy reward: be gone.
Well mock'd.
If I can cheque my erring love, I will,
Come, I have heard that fearful commenting
And these he masters now: now he weighs time
That man i' the world who shall report he has
A will that bars the title of thy son.
your ear, she's as fartuous a civil modest wife, and
Go to.
Writes
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
That would reduce these bloody days again,
And live upon the vapour of a dungeon,
Thou art sure of me:--go, make money:--I have told
ever know unthrift that was beloved after his means?
king's sake, he were living! I think it would be
Music ceases
Instance, O instance! strong as Pluto's gates,
For 'tis a sore upon us,
a tailor to thee and shall make thee a new doublet
There's not a whittle in the unruly camp
Not to be weary with you, he's in prison.
more delicate way than drowning. Make all the money
Is self from self: a deadly banishment!
For the hot vengeance and the rod of heaven
As water is in water.
Doth rise and fall between thy rosed lips,
By the Lord, a buck-basket! rammed me in with foul
Exeunt JULIET and Nurse
For I am sure, when he shall see our army,
After the shepherd that complain'd of love,
Nor ever had one penny bribe from France.
Welcome is peace, if he on peace consist,
ACT V
My lord, you must tell us where the body is, and go
and as mine honesty puts it to utterance.
I have a mind presages me such thrift,
Prayers and tears have moved me, gifts could never.
Set them into confounding odds, that beasts
presence must be the whip of the other.
Then let him be denay'd the regentship.
'Tis proper I obey him, but not now.
You have too much, good lady, but to know
To tell it o'er: go to, well said, well said.
That through the window-bars bore at men's eyes,
Show his eyes, and grieve his heart,
I do beseech your royal majesty,
Who shall tell Priam so, or Hecuba?
pleasure but in passion, not in words only, but in
O ye immortal gods!
Up to the ears. Come, we burn daylight, ho!
That I should do what I abhor to name,
I never did repent for doing good,
Unless some fit or frenzy do possess her:
And since her time are colliers counted bright.
Marry, were they.
I conjure you, by that which you profess,
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
But what says Jupiter, I ask thee?
always factionary on the party of your general.
Why dost thou lash that whore? Strip thine own back,
And bear't before him: thereby shall we shadow
Lord, Lord, she will be a joyful woman.
And I will pamper it with lamentations.
Preoccupied with what you rather must do
And his and mine loved darling.
What, old acquaintance! could not all this flesh
We must do something, and i' the heat.
Arm'd, say you?
That faced and braved me in this matter so?
This is the air, that is the glorious sun,
I pray you, good Bassanio, let me know it,
They are beaten, sir, and our advantage serves
From these old arms and legs, by the good gods,
Yes, 'faith heartily.
Than dogs that are as often beat for barking
Thy sister's sister.
Her infinite variety: other women cloy
solemn talk.
Then let her beauty be her wedding-dower,
A ring in chase of you: so did I abuse
a postmaster's boy.
Can her contempt be answer'd?
Good, and what of him?
We do, sir, tell us what hath brought you to't.
'Tis evermore the prologue to his sleep:
You have heard him swear downright he was.
Kinsmen, his sorrows are past remedy.
He draws Mark Antony out of the way.
part, I must needs confess, I have received some
Piercing a hogshead! a good lustre of conceit in a
day does night, it's spritely, waking, audible, and
This is all.
A murderous guilt shows not itself more soon
To his surname Coriolanus 'longs more pride
What if this mixture do not work at all?
O, ho! do you come near me now? no worse man than
And blown with restless violence round about
To any living creature: believe me, la,
Is but a quintain, a mere lifeless block.
Our Britain seems as of it, but not in 't,
Alas, you know not: I must tell you then:
you seem to say so.
Exeunt
SCENE I. The Abbey at Bury St. Edmund's.
What a long night is this! I will not change my
For you my staff of office did I break
Five shillings to one on't, with any man that knows
A vengeance on your crafty wither'd hide!
Though so denied fair harbour in my house.
sport, there should be, again to inflame it and to
Low march within
They are opposed already.
Enter a Goth, leading AARON with his Child in his arms
Blessed be your royal grace!
My countryman, but yet I know him not.
And caterpillars eat my leaves away,
If it should give your age such cause of fear:
Thou art the king of honour:
Does conquer him that did his master conquer
It is so. Are there balance here to weigh
Enter HOTSPUR and DOUGLAS
as well drawn as his, no less young, more strong,
For your broken shin.
And, by device, let blockish Ajax draw
What am I, sir! nay, what are you, sir? O immortal
I'll give no wound to thee. Therefore, good heavens,
Thou shouldst not bear from me a Greekish member
It is his highness' pleasure that the queen
your several dwelling-places, and not to wear,
Were't not that, by great preservation,
Yet so my fancy may be satisfied,
Still live they and for ever may they last!
Here is the steed, we the caparison:
He had, before this last expedition, twenty-five
Thy grave is digg'd already in the earth.
True sword to sword, I'll potch at him some way
ACT II
Among the nettles at the elder-tree
Prithee, away.
Know, worthy Pompey,
abide the smell of hot meat since. Why do your
Yet grace must still look so.
Well, my lord,
Will parley with Jack Cade their general:
Did York's dread curse prevail so much with heaven?
Upon her great disaster.
thee a steward still, the fellow of servants, and
Sir, a whole history.
[Within]  Qui est la?
Through Athens I am thought as fair as she.
His honour and myself are at the one,
Mercutio, thou consort'st with Romeo,--
A man of Claudio's years, his beard and head
one, sir, in this interlude, one Sir Topas, sir, but
And yielding to another when it blows,
And, in this brainish apprehension, kills
This was the noblest Roman of them all:
She took the ring of me: I'll none of it.
To see her in your arms.
With this kiss take my blessing: God protect thee!
I come to woo ladies, I fright them. But, in faith,
So great as our dread father in a scale
kind master.
That's Helenus. I marvel where Troilus is. That's
Come, go we then together.
PROLOGUE
You taught me language, and my profit on't
Thanks, my good lord chamberlain.
By virtue specially to be achieved.
Abusing better men than they can be,
Where never Roman shall take note of him.
And follow me, that will to some provision
When you yourself did part them.
Why should you think that I should woo in scorn?
And her immortal part with angels lives.
He thought 'twas witchcraft--but I am much to blame,
So leaves me to consider what is breeding
The fairest hand I ever touch'd! O beauty,
Ay, good brother, or go about to think.
To her, widow!
Pardon me, madam:
Why, madam, so, no doubt, he is.
Great is his comfort in this earthly vale,
it.
Exeunt HENRY PERCY and Lords
Thanks for that:
As loath to bear me to the slaughter-house.
Enter KING PHILIP, LEWIS, CARDINAL PANDULPH, and Attendants
occasion will rob you of a great deal of patience:
To eke it and to draw it out in length,
Are gone to Bolingbroke, dispersed and fled.
stole from Florence, taking no leave, and I follow
For we would give much, to use violent thefts,
Soft! it smells most sweetly in my sense.
Good Master Shallow, let him woo for himself.
Which is the lady I must seize upon?
Then be my passions bottomless with them.
Prithee, if thou lovest me, tell me.
Take what wife you will to bed,
To-morrow, then, I judge a happy day.
By help of her more potent ministers
To be adopted heir to Frederick.
For so they seem: they've left their barge and landed,
affection to congratulate the princess at her
So that the art and practic part of life
'Conscience,' say I, 'you counsel well,' ' Fiend,'
Why dost thou use me thus? I know thee not.
Charms this report out.
I had rather hear Lady, my brach, howl in Irish.
And with satiety seeks to quench his thirst.
Let Mars divide eternity in twain,
Up to the eastern tower,
Amazed, my lord? why looks your highness sad?
duke to be wise.
I was beset with shame and courtesy,
Sure, sure, such carping is not commendable.
Without suspicion.
Which I could fancy more than any other.
Our griefs, and not our manners, reason now.
Soft! I will go along,
Is this the Talbot, so much fear'd abroad
And place your hands below your husband's foot:
I am a tainted wether of the flock,
man and a fool.
We have dispatch'd the duke, as he commanded.
I know not what to do: I would to God,
Dabbled in blood, and he squeak'd out aloud,
petitionary countrymen. The good gods assuage thy
Alarum. Enter KING HENRY, and forces, WARWICK, GLOUCESTER, EXETER, and others
He will to his Egyptian dish again: then shall the
'cuckoo' never so?
And where my liege's? all about the breast:
Amaze the welkin with your broken staves!
Master Antipholus,--
Who hath descried the number of the foe?
He'll think anon it lives.
They set the same, and there it doth remain,
Exeunt COSTARD and JAQUENETTA
Thou hadst been toss'd from wrong to injury,
Indies, and I will trade to them both. Go bear thou
And when I am on horseback, I will swear
These lovers cry Oh! oh! they die!
Speak, brave Hector: we are much delighted.
I must confess your offer is the best,
Good Lord, how like the empress' sons they are!
if you mean to save yourself from whipping, leap me
Environ'd me about, and howled in mine ears
Cast none away. That I shall clear myself,
Pursue thy life, and live aye with thy name!
We'll burn the house of Brutus.
Since she was Cleopatra? Whip him, fellows,
Strike off his head.
No, not so much perdition as an hair
himself for joy of his found daughter, as if that
Moved with remorse of these outrageous broils,
She may help you to many fair preferments,
The Welshmen are dispersed, and Salisbury
And do expect him here some two hours hence.
So, so, my lord.
Farewell, my coz.
SCENE III. Brutus's tent.
Fear not: the forest is not three leagues off,
And, in thy closet pent up, rue my shame,
Of the whole body. The belly answer'd--
Judicious punishment! 'twas this flesh begot
A' did in some sort, indeed, handle women, but then
Than are the tender horns of cockl'd snails,
And am moreover suitor that I may
That it was yours. Now, for conspiracy,
One of them you shall be.
That I may live to say, The dog is dead!
That you'll vouchsafe me raiment, bed, and food.'
SCENE XV. The same. A monument.
That is not the duke's letter, sir, that is an
But 'tis no matter, thou shalt bring him to me
Faith, I saw it not, but I felt it hot in her breath.
Those precious motives, those strong knots of love,
Tribunes, and me, a poor competitor.
That blood should sprinkle me to make me grow:
I, as Aeneas, our great ancestor,
My lord,--
good man is to have you understand me that he is
as my word, but speciously for Master Fenton. Well,
Than for to think that I would sink it here.
Exit
But who can cease to weep and look on this?
A common slave--you know him well by sight--
Enter a Gentleman
Nor I, my lord.
out, they will spit, and for lovers lacking--God
And let him ply his music.
And keep their impious turbans on, without
Of divination in our sister work
To have their balmy slumbers waked with strife.
Speak suddenly, my lords, are we all friends?
We follow'd then our lord, our lawful king:
I do entreat that we may sup together:
How thou lovest us, show in our brother's welcome,
I wis it is not half way to her heart,
He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman,
Exceeding pleasant, none a stranger there
DON
Hear me one word.
your own fault and not mine: for had you been as I
My father as he slept, I had done't.
Peace! no more.
maid! where's my cousin Cressid?
Be calm, good wind, blow not a word away
pills to cool the reins. Call her in.
Give me the light: upon thy life, I charge thee,
Cassius, go you into the other street,
As surely as I live, my lord.
And, that thou mayst perceive my fear of this,
O thou eternal Mover of the heavens.
No, it is 'lapis:' I pray you, remember in your prain.
Nor sight of priests in holy vestments bleeding,
And frowning brow to brow, ourselves will hear
If there be any pody in the house, and in the
And he to yours, and all of you to God's!
My parts, my title and my perfect soul
There is no tongue hath power to curse him right.
All the particulars of vice so grafted
Out of the powerful regions under earth,
There's one thing wanting, which I doubt not but
very notes of admiration: they seemed almost, with
Of many in the army: many years,
As miserable by the life of thee
Enter SHYLOCK
Enter a Sheriff
Thy hounds shall make the welkin answer them
A devil, a born devil, on whose nature
Draws, and wounds RODERIGO
Change shapes with Proteus for advantages,
Marriage is a matter of more worth
And seal'd between us.
Take him and cut him out in little stars,
Nor once be chastised with the sober eye
And perfected by the swift course of time.
worse at ease he is, and that he that wants money,
Were all the wealth I have shut up in thee,
Ay, forsooth, and, I pray, how does good Mistress Anne?
Where are those--Sit down, Kate, and welcome.--
But better service have I never done you
A married man! that's most intolerable.
As water in a sieve: give not me counsel,
Rancour will out: proud prelate, in thy face
A Trojan hath been slain: since she could speak,
With Demetrius.
Are come with Cassius.
husband had him of. What do you call your knight's
May't please your lordship, 'tis a word or two
Choose your own company, and command what cost
Than summer-seeming lust, and it hath been
Wherein we must have use of your advice:
That both our powers, with smiling
Already at my house.
Under your pardon. You must note beside,
The one is my sovereign, whom both my oath
Let me look back upon thee. O thou wall,
The sweet which is their poison: your dishonour
Then, at the expiration of the year,
The smallest fear or doubt of her revolt,
As I do pray the gods.
What shall I need to draw my sword? the paper
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
Well, we will have such a prologue, and it shall be
And lords and ladies in their lives
Yet my good will is great, though the gift small.
SCENE XII. Egypt. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
Brutus and Caesar: what should be in that 'Caesar'?
Entreat her not the worse in that I pray
Nor boots it me to say I honour him.
Did sometimes march? by heaven I charge thee, speak!
Sister, content you in my discontent.
Troilus, I say! where's Troilus?
more. Adieu, trusty Pompey. 'Bless you, friar.
Ay, he was porn at Monmouth, Captain Gower. What
Reads
east side of the grove?
Fine linen, Turkey cushions boss'd with pearl,
After some time, to abuse Othello's ear
Saints m your injuries, devils being offended,
A sennet sounded. Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MARK  ANTONY, LEPIDUS, POMPEY, AGRIPPA, MECAENAS, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, MENAS, with other captains
I call the gods to witness, I will choose
How I shall take her from her father's house,
thee straight,
And so rebel to judgment.
And yet enrich'd it too: she gave it me, and said
Never, till Caesar's three and thirty wounds
The luce is the fresh fish, the salt fish is an old coat.
woman. Him I, as my ever-esteemed duty pricks me on,
And let them be recall'd from their exile:
'twas so indeed.
Her C's, her U's and her T's: why that?
Yes. Has he affections in him,
Draws the sweet infant breath of gentle sleep,
And, to cut off all strife, here sit we down:
By message craved, so is Lord Talbot come.
You know me well, I am he.
Which is to me some praise that I thy parts admire:
In cypress chests my arras counterpoints,
Chickens, the way which they stoop'd eagles, slaves,
Thou hast as chiding a nativity
When Caesar lived, he durst not thus have moved me.
Against black pagans, Turks, and Saracens:
Let us address to tend on Hector's heels:
Farewell, kind neighbours: we wish'd Coriolanus
But five and twenty. O God, thy arm was here,
Have you the heart? When your head did but ache,
Enter DON JOHN and BORACHIO
He shall not make me there a joyful bride.
valour. Challenge me the count's youth to fight
To carve out dials quaintly, point by point,
Exit EDGAR
impossible,--
Strangle such thoughts as these with any thing
near the altar, as high priestess, a number of
Horns within
As were our England in reversion his,
The one in motley here,
As far as doth the Capitol exceed
Noblest of men, woo't die?
With grief that's beauty's canker, thou mightst call him
In all designs begun on earth below
myself, to be in a due resolution.
That time,--O times!--
Did graciously plead for his funerals:
speak a good word to Mistress Anne Page for my
Patroclus, I'll speak with nobody.
If we compose well here, to Parthia:
To the lascivious pleasing of a lute.
And rattles in their hands: upon a sudden,
Beshrew the witch! with venomous wights she stays
broken coxcomb. When you take occasions to see leeks
Enter DOGBERRY, VERGES, and the Watch, with CONRADE and BORACHIO
I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.
Sir Robert could do well: marry, to confess,
of thy body that I am father to, then call me
If 'twill not serve,'tis not so base as you,
rising of the lark to the lodging of the lamb, vary
Valiant Othello, we must straight employ you
If he had been as you and you as he,
That may be, sir, when I may be a wife.
The Lady Constance in a frenzy died
No, boy.
So far in blood that sin will pluck on sin:
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you,
By Jove, I always took three threes for nine.
themselves have provided that I shall have much help
Almost midnight, madam.
Ay, he spoke Greek.
And worse than Progne I will be revenged:
And had, besides this gentleman in question,
Here is my bed: sleep give thee all his rest!
it: but, first, how the poor souls roared, and the
But such an honest chronicler as Griffith.
Enter a Beadle with whips
Whiles, in his moan, the ship splits on the rock,
Whether your grace be worthy, yea or no,
When Talbot hath set footing once in France
There serve your lusts, shadow'd from heaven's eye,
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before
Warwick, what are thy news? and yours, fair queen?
his flesh: what's that good for?
Ay me, he'll find the young man here, and be mad!
Amongst your cloven army.
The hearing of my wife with your approach,
That danger shall seem sport, and I will go.
and lay it to your heart: it is the only thing for a qualm.
As I had title in thy noble husband!
shaven Hercules in the smirched worm-eaten tapestry,
They bid us to the English dancing-schools,
unsuitable to her disposition, being addicted to a
We are glad the Dauphin is so pleasant with us,
At three and two years old, I stole these babes,
Which with my scimitar I'll cool to-morrow.
Why, horns, which such as you are fain to be
Found it too precious-princely for a grave.
He shall kill two of us, and men indeed:
Live thou, I live: with much, much more dismay
You are a fool. You, niece, provide yourself:
Judas I am,--
Shall I speak a word in your ear?
churchyard,
That shall be by and by: I remember the story.
[Reads]  'Imprimis: She can milk.'
I shall remember more. Bid him--ah, what?--
Touches his friend, which craves to be remember'd
The one part suffer'd, the other will I do.
Come, then, for with a wound I must be cured.
Hear me, O, hear me!
Are you not stronger than you were?
My mind she has mated, and amazed my sight.
And interchangeably set down their hands,
And will revolt from me to succor him.
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
Yea, sir, we hope.
Between two girls, which hath the merriest eye,
The next degree is England's royal throne,
And whiles the honourable captain there
I brought my master news of Juliet's death,
The whitest virtue strikes. What king so strong
Of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing,
word too great for any mouth of this age's size. To
And throw the rider headlong in the lists,
And that it comes from old Andronicus,
Were a sufficient briber for his life.
Did to his predecessors part withal.
If any order might be thought upon.
My gracious uncle--
To find thy brother Bassianus dead.
Honest, my lord!
Hail, Caesar, and my lord! hail, most dear Caesar!
uncleanly, if courtiers were shepherds.
Let's hear it.
Aside
To fortune's yoke, but let thy dauntless mind
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse,
is there not besides the Douglas? have I not all
Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, GLOUCESTER, and Servants
Cannot be truly follow'd. You shall mark
Madam, it is, so you stand pleased withal.
This hath been
as once I was, and had but this fish painted,
My maid's aunt, the fat woman of Brentford, has a
O Lord, sir, I'll be sworn upon all the books in
Is weaker than the wine, and mine own tongue
Give me the cup: let go, by heaven, I'll have't.
O'ertopping woman's power. Madam, you do me wrong:
Even to my person, than I thought he would
The very time Aumerle and you did talk.
Advanced in time to great and high estate,
And hear at large discoursed all our fortunes:
Enter LORD ROSS and LORD WILLOUGHBY
I mean, who set the body and the limbs
The Prince of Arragon hath ta'en his oath,
bill, and many a time, when I have been dry and
Exeunt
Ha, ha! he wears cruel garters. Horses are tied
Yes, that thou hast, whether thou art tainted or free.
This wide and universal theatre
Bar his access to the king, never attempt
But farewell it, for I will use no art.
Cease, gentle queen, these execrations,
And they shall be themselves.
I will discase me, and myself present
will blow it to pieces, they are so pitifully sodden.
Your safety, for the which myself and them
To render them redoubted! Look on beauty,
sweet-faced man, a proper man, as one shall see in a
her fortune, her marriage-dowry, with both, her
And never to let Beatrice know of it.
Because sweet flowers are slow and weeds make haste.
He finds thee in the stout Norweyan ranks,
Thou hast, Ventidius,
Help, help, ho!
Cry lost, and so good night!
Or less than a just pound, be it but so much
with two stones moe than's artificial one: he is
Of a beloved daughter and a wife.
merry. Now, good Peter Quince, call forth your
Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting,
tell you you have good faces. If you see this in
more willingly part withal: except my life, except
To-morrow, or next day, they will be here.
It shall be suffigance.
Good.
The rack dislimns, and makes it indistinct,
I understand thee, thou hadst some means to keep a
conduct of the lady. I am no fighter. I have heard
The weight of this sad time we must obey,
I knew her by this jewel on her sleeve.
Now, sir, 'thought is free:' I pray you, bring
I'll tell thee on the instant thou art then
Alas, good lady!
Let me pour in some sack to the Thames water, for my
Where?
Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet,
But, Katharine, what was sent to you from fair Dumain?
If love ambitious sought a match of birth,
Come, I must bring you to our captain's cave:
Ha, ha! are you honest?
Within his tent, but ill disposed, my lord.
What's that?
I am for it, lieutenant, and I'll do you justice.
And I with them the third night kept the watch,
Cry.
it: I loved you not.
When we have chid the hasty-footed time
To give her princely training, that she may be
Lend favourable ears to our request,
come, come, come, come, give me your hand. What's
I came yonder at Eton to marry Mistress Anne Page,
With those five talents.
Shylock, there's thrice thy money offer'd thee.
Upon some book I love I'll pray for thee.
Or lay on that shall make your shoulders crack.
The confident and over-lusty French
As much as in him lies, from time to time
It is not so express'd: but what of that?
will be like a jack-an-apes also, to burn the
To see thy son and heir more early down.
Exeunt
To worry lambs and lap their gentle blood,
That slily glided towards your majesty,
of men's bodies? Well, a horn for my money, when
You have her father's love, Demetrius,
Shall seem expedient on the now-born brief,
pulled down?
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
and they will learn you by rote where services were
one, they will beat us, for they bear them on their
'Tis even so. Hero and Margaret have by this
Exeunt KING LEAR and CORDELIA, guarded
And on to-morrow, bid them march away.
What say they?
The beacon of the wise, the tent that searches
and the boy:--
For nature so preposterously to err,
If they not thought the profits of my death
Whom we invite to see us crown'd at Scone.
Nay, speak thy mind, and let him ne'er speak more
And most assured that he is a friend
Post you to London, and you will find it so,
the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of
If could speak so wisely under an arrest, I would
And found it was his brother, his elder brother.
Doth speak sufficiently he's gone to travel.
will not dispraise your sister Cassandra's wit, but--
That is thy charge: then to the elements
To equal mine!--was it not thus? what say you?
And swell his sail with thine own powerful breath,
swain,--I keep her as a vessel of the law's fury,
Then our office may,
The day begins to break, and night is fled,
By penitence the Eternal's wrath's appeased:
From those you sent to the oracle are come
He used us scornfully: he should have show'd us
I have done no harm. But I remember now
Now, by my sceptre's awe, I make a vow,
stuffed tennis-balls.
He thinks he still is at his instrument.
For putting on so new a fashion'd robe.
And three times as much more, and yet nothing at
Should have gone off.
Still betters what is done. When you speak, sweet.
And it grows fouler.
And harbourage for ourself, our ships, and men.
Cannot be well bestow'd.
SCENE II. Friar Laurence's cell.
Enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Stigmatical in making, worse in mind.
To shallow  and c.
am: the violet smells to him as it doth to me: the
the north star. I would not marry her, though she
To bed, to bed: sleep kill those pretty eyes,
Why didst thou tell me that thou wert a king?
your eyes as other women do.
It is an old coat.
Had I not reason, think ye, to make haste,
to three kings in a forenoon, and widow them all:
Of cruel war: sixty and nine, that wore
Chief nourisher in life's feast,--
You mistake, knight, 'accost' is front her, board
Take thou this vial, being then in bed,
And the rich East to boot.
Then lend the eye a terrible aspect,
art not thou horrible afeard? thou being
And that may be determined at the one
How now! what means this, herald? know'st thou not
With thy unworthiness, thou diest: away!
and will speak more in a minute than he will stand
Exit IAGO
All's done, all's won, here breathless lies the king.
And, Benedick, love on, I will requite thee,
wears the marble.
Good night, my lord.
it was not Anne, but a postmaster's boy.
Because I will not jump with common spirits
Know you any, Hero?
to meddle or make. You may be gone, it is not good
The mailed Mars shall on his altar sit
It must not be, there is no power in Venice
Doubt it not, worthy lord.
Nay, then, come on, and take the chance of anger.
Above a number, if my actions
How like you the young German, the Duke of Saxony's nephew?
Ay, my lord.
fellow be looked to:' fellow! not Malvolio, nor
and how he goes! O admirable youth! he ne'er saw
That long to move.
What's here? the portrait of a blinking idiot,
Must be fulfill'd, and I attend with patience.
Sad stories chanced in the times of old.
other circumstance. Good morrow, for, as I take it,
Come away, come away, death,
not you chiefly belong to my heart? I have told
Run to my study. By and by! God's will,
There's his chamber, his house, his castle, his
And, acting this in an obedient hope,
[Within]  Nor to-day here you must not, come again
A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
Touching the weal o' the common, you shall find
Lavinia, live, outlive thy father's days,
Light on the man! Come hither, gentle mistress:
Enter FALSTAFF
Co-rivall'd greatness? Either to harbour fled,
I'd such a courage to do him good. But now return,
Save that there was not time enough to hear,
My casket and my jewels, and bid Nicander
To the Propontic and the Hellespont,
You are a fool, go to.
You teach me how a beggar should be answer'd.
Be my retentive enemy, my gaol?
The Duke of Buckingham's surveyor, ha?
The prince of darkness is a gentleman:
the lip of his mistress: your diet shall be in all
Flourish. Enter KING, COUNTESS, LAFEU, the two French Lords, with Attendants
As great as is thy master, greater, for
What should I do with him? dress him in my apparel
That I am forsworn for thee,
have change, she must: therefore put money in thy
thus. They will scarcely believe this without trial:
DON
Come, strike up!
by mine honour,
companion, and he steals it.
Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
That now you are come, you will be gone. Leave me
I know her answer.
O, madam, my old heart is crack'd, it's crack'd!
Why, courage then! what cannot be avoided
I will be deaf to pleading and excuses,
Exeunt
The Spaniard, tied blood and favour to her,
The general cause? or is it a fee-grief
I'll fetch you one.
That pupils lacks she none of noble race,
sweet, deliver this paper into the royal hand of the
Get him to bed, and let his hurt be look'd to.
One touch of nature makes the whole world kin,
That died some twelvemonth since, then leaving her
Should well agree with our external parts?
Exit Tailor
comes that the wenches say 'God damn me,' that's as
Ask God for temperance, that's the appliance only
Saint Denis bless this happy stratagem!
Prizes of accident as oft as merit:
Most venerable worth, did I devotion.
Your grace, we think, should soonest know his mind.
head, and show the world what the bird hath done to
A great-sized monster of ingratitudes:
Incenses them to send destruction.
Caesar? art thou led in triumph? What, is there
For hand to hand he would have vanquish'd thee.
competency lives longer.
No, no, my lord.
Ay, prithee, sing.
And made between's by vows. Thou hast found mine,
Your death has eyes in 's head then, I have not seen
thorn-bush, my thorn-bush, and this dog, my dog.
Enter Clown
Iago? O, I am spoil'd, undone by villains!
If the king come, I shall incur I know not
Use me but as your spaniel, spurn me, strike me,
We bodged again, as I have seen a swan
I am about to weep, but, thinking that
Here, my lord.
Who wrought with them, and all things else that might
curs, throw some of them at me, come, lame me with reasons.
prunes, and having but two in the dish, as I said,
He is not, nor we have not heard from him.
Let him depart before we need his help.
In love?
Grandpre and Roussi, Fauconberg and Foix,
An instrument of this your calling back,
doubt not but I shall find them tractable enough.
What may befall him, to his harm and ours:
Knacks, trifles, nosegays, sweetmeats, messengers
Fear not our care, sir.
Enter DON JOHN and CONRADE
The quality of mercy is not strain'd,
O, she says nothing, sir, but weeps and weeps,
And so suppose am I, for in his grave
The ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
Thy words move rage and not remorse in me:
A pound of that same merchant's flesh is thine:
What is the cause of thunder?
At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,'
on. She hath made me four and twenty nose-gays for
We must be neat, not neat, but cleanly, captain:
A lion-fell, nor else no lion's dam,
No, madam.
paper, although the sheet were big enough for the
Take up the sword again, or take up me.
Cornelia the midwife and myself,
That hath deprived me of your grace and favour,
I'll have my kiss, sir. Lady, by your leave.
sparks and lustrous, a word, good metals: you shall
me faith, say I. Well, it's all one.
Nay, come, again.
According to the weight and worthiness.
I have forgot him: my imagination
Give up your staff, sir, and the king his realm.
Doubtless he shrives this woman to her smock,
Her sighs will make a battery in his breast,
You say very true, scauld knave, when God's will is:
Find thou the means, and I'll find such a man.
Fine, i'faith!
And left me to a bootless inquisition,
That's a lie in thy throat. I charge you in his
And, with a martial scorn, with one hand beats
Trinculo and thyself shall be viceroys. Dost thou
ears a fork'd one!
Turn you the key, and know his business of him,
speaks holiday, he smells April and May: he will
With such bedecking ornaments of praise?
A place below the first: for what miscarries
Husband, let's follow, to see the end of this ado.
A mother's tears in passion for her son:
Fie on him, Jezebel!
O cousin, thou art come to set mine eye:
The more accursed thou, that still omitt'st it.
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
A cunning man did calculate my birth
Have practised dangerously against your state,
For suddenly a grievous sickness took him,
Enter Page
Or I'll attach you by this officer.
To fight with Talbot: as he march'd along,
'Tis not his new-made bride shall succor him:
Not you to me, but I betray'd by you:
And much I need to help you, if need were,
For happy wedlock hours.
Sith nor the exterior nor the inward man
There is cold meat i' the cave, we'll browse on that,
They are not yet come back. But I have spoke
Go, tell the prince: run to the Capulets:
Dare come about him.
That she's the choice love of Signior Gremio.
Grumio, my horse.
Had not an ear to hear my true time broke.
That nature pranks her in attracts my soul.
Why, fare thee well: I will o'erlook thy paper.
He raised a sigh so piteous and profound
As surfeit is the father of much fast,
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
What duty they do owe their lords and husbands.
May yet ere night yield both my life and them
Made Britain India: every man that stood
And waste the time, which looks for other revels.
Well, here is my leg.
For we are peremptory to dispatch
hath gelded the commonwealth, and made it an eunuch:
O woe! thy canopy is dust and stones,--
At Christmas I no more desire a rose
Neither, fair saint, if either thee dislike.
Enter other Servants
Why, sir, I trust I may have leave to speak,
O Brakenbury, I have done those things,
It is, you lie, you lie:
if you will help to bear it, Sir John, take all, or
And finish all foul thoughts. O Antony,
First Serving-man	Content: I'll to the surgeon's.
Stands not within the prospect of belief,
Now, Somerset, where is your argument?
His banners sable, trimm'd with rich expense,
And driven into despair an enemy's hope,
And balms applied to, you, yet dare I never
A good wench, give it me.
SCENE X. Kent. IDEN's garden.
Alack, poor gentleman!
Must help you more than you are hurt by me.
I had rather want those than my head. Have at you!
With that which, but by being so retired,
Say, Earl of Suffolk--if thy name be so--
That thus affect'st a sheep-hook! Thou old traitor,
For 'tis a bond in men. Give him thy daughter:
Lady, I am not well, else I should answer
In your retirement, I had swinged him soundly.
Be heap'd like mine and that thy skill be more
To buy and sell with groats, to show bare heads
God be wi' you, take mine office. O wretched fool.
As 'twere a knell unto our master's fortunes,
Aside
From all dishonesty he can: in this,
Good.
He prettily and aptly taunts himself:
Exeunt
may sigh it off. Send after the duke and appeal to
As if I had never been such.
'Tis too much proved--that with devotion's visage
Been sworn my soldier, bidding me depend
or, Francis, o' Thursday, or indeed, Francis, when
A second time do such a courtesy.
desires, and fairies will not pinse you.
Yourself shall feast with us before you go
of no one good quality worthy your lordship's
And, as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join
But thou, 'gainst all proportion, didst bring in
I cannot tell, I make it breed as fast:
Shall quite strike off all service I have done,
Worthily term'd them merciless to us!
Doing more murders in this loathsome world,
There's enough to make us all.
But pardon me. I am too sudden-bold:
Nor nothing in your letters writ of her?
prevent your discovery, and your secrecy to the king
Constant in spirit, not swerving with the blood,
A mote will turn the balance, which Pyramus, which
In few, they hurried us aboard a bark,
No other speaker of my living actions,
The day almost itself professes yours,
Which he to seek of me again, perforce,
That your estate requires and mine can yield.
From seventeen years till now almost fourscore
And will not you maintain the thing you teach,
And wonder greatly that man's face can fold
Of England's true-anointed lawful king.
This is a brave fellow.
Our bosom interest: go pronounce his present death,
What shall become of me?
In that be made more bitter. Fear o'ershades me:
Fire and brimstone!
I cannot hear of any that did see her.
So to enforce or qualify the laws
That thus he suffers for.
quite from the answer of his degree.
That prosperously I have attempted and
'Twould burst at this. Captain I'll be no more,
Clean over-blown, themselves, the conquerors.
We come to speak with him, and you shall not sin,
Even as a flattering dream or worthless fancy.
Jew to sup to-night with my new master the Christian.
And, let me tell you, it will ne'er be well,
too for your society.
Lead, monster, we'll follow. I would I could see
cudgelled, they would melt me out of my fat drop by
Exit BRAKENBURY
Help me, my women,--we must draw thee up:
rich fellow enough, go to, and a fellow that hath
Each minute, some.
Go, call before me all the lords in court.
He should have leave to go away betimes,
But when they heard he was thine enemy,
Than young Alcides, when he did redeem
Stay, ho! and let us hear Mark Antony.
Omitting the sweet benefit of time
Got with much ease. Now merrily to horse:
But not deliver'd. O, hear me breathe my life
Not all thy counsel.
'Tis not for you to hear what I can speak:
Will you subscribe his thought, and say he is?
The Dauphin, whom of succors we entreated,
The valiant never taste of death but once.
A thousand thousand sighs to save,
I'll tell you what,--
For the letter that begins them all, H.
Look behind you, my lord.
Signior Benedick that said so.
In every power that moves.
His fellowship i' the cause against your city,
Well roared, Lion.
Thou wrong'st a gentleman, who is as far
I'll geld 'em all, fourteen they shall not see,
With bloody veins, expecting overthrow,
But life, being weary of these worldly bars,
though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet
A new hell in himself.
But what's that Pucelle whom they term so pure?
I came into the world with my legs forward:
Is Clarence dead? the order was reversed.
Damnable both-sides rogue!
But yet we want a colour for his death:
Nearest the merchant's heart. Be merciful:
And have thee reverenced like a blessed saint:
Now is it Rome indeed and room enough,
I will not ruinate my father's house,
For nought so vile that on the earth doth live
SCENE V. Cymbeline's tent.
And that my fainting words do warrant death,
monarch? I should venture purgatory for't.
You will be welcome with this intelligence, Nicanor.
Both of Galen and Paracelsus.
Unless my hand and strength could equal them.
A very pleasing night to honest men.
Enter Chamberlain
That art not what thou'rt sure of! Get thee hence:
So doubly seconded with will and power,
Have you long sojourned there?
the divine forfeit of his soul upon oath, never
How now! what noise? That spirit's possessed with haste
It should be better he became her guest,
The best I can, my lord.
Exit with DORCAS and MOPSA
Come hither, neighbour Seacole. God hath blessed
displeasure.
We shall to London get, where you are loved
Of what you shall deliver. Yet, give me leave:
True, and I for a plantain: thus came your
With his most noble blood.
Your sword is bright, sir, put it up again.
With fiery quickness: therefore prepare thyself,
But, poor old man, thou prunest a rotten tree,
Makes factious feasts, rails on our state of war,
If my observation, which very seldom lies,
Sees Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt:
By whom this great assembly is contrived,
And I for comfort have but one false glass,
Nay, I know not. You have heard of the news abroad,
Well, breathe awhile, and then to it again: and
Yet have I gold flies from another coast,
That it intends to do? My lord of Burgundy,
And lack not to lose still: thus, Indian-like,
restrained to keep him from stumbling, hath been
Good morrow, Master Gadshill. It holds current that
Exeunt
And there an end, but now they rise again,
But you, my lord, were glad to be employ'd,
'Fore me, this fellow speaks! What then? what then?
What would these strangers? know their minds, Boyet:
Fie, what a spendthrift is he of his tongue!
I thank thee, good Tubal: good news, good news!
Long ere she did appear, the trees by the way
His little kingdom of a forced grave.
There's for thyself, and that's for Tamora.
Who, in the conflict that it holds with death,
She's impudent, my lord,
Wilt thou reach stars, because they shine on thee?
I am to blame.
To fright me with your sprites, you're powerful at it.
Nay, put out all your hands. Not one word more:
And then our arms, like to a muzzled bear,
Must I do so? and must I ravel out
Which of you, if you were a prince's son,
But we our kingdom's safety must so tender,
all he was in woman's apparel, I would not have had
For henceforth of poor Claudio.
My lord, I do confess I ne'er was married,
In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
Be one of those that think
More spongy to suck in the sense of fear,
What great creation and what dole of honour
But that his negligence, his folly, fear,
shepherd deliver the manner how he found it:
To his experienced tongue, yet let it please both,
And, noble uncle, I beseech your grace
Sweet ladies, will it please you sit? Sir Harry,
Nor is't directly laid to thee, the death
Sweet lady, ho, ho.
That I'll resume the shape which thou dost think
live cleanly as a nobleman should do.
I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was
Ay, and Hector's a greyhound.
Which now bear evidence against my soul,
Shall have my Bianca's love.
SCENE I. Before PROSPERO'S Cell.
Nay, good my lord, for mine ease, in good faith.
Good morrow, Kate, for that's your name, I hear.
Ha, do I perceive dat? have you make-a de sot of
The crown will find an heir: great Alexander
May blame, but not control. Who's there? the traitor?
The mettle of your pasture, let us swear
dat I vill not for the varld I shall leave behind.
Strike, fellows, strike, this is the man I seek.
That stands upon your royal grandsire's bones,
Thou makest thy bloody pillow? Or who was he
To nature none more bound, his training such,
I understand the business, I hear it: to have an
Didst thou not say, when I did push thee back--
Who is thy grandfather: he made those clothes,
Re-enter LYSANDER
That he in sport doth call his Rosalind.
had now, for putting the hand in the pocket and
I have done.
Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow
To fill the world with vicious qualities.
That thou, vouchsafing here to visit me,
Without ripe moving to't? Would I do this?
Is every breath a death, and thus, unknown,
And whatsoever cunning fiend it was
Bespoke him thus, 'Contaminated, base
Caesar sits down in Alexandria, where
A joyless, dismal, black, and sorrowful issue:
And watery death-bed for him. He may win,
And with indented glides did slip away
Helen's heart good now, ha! Would I could see
And your fair show shall suck away their souls,
Exit Servant
Were I alone to pass the difficulties
There's fire ready, and therefore, good Grumio, the news.
And by herself, I will not tell you whose.
Reignier, Duke of Anjou, doth take his part,
Enter an AEdile
A long flourish
No way to that, for weakness, which she enter'd.
When there is such disorder in my wit.
Hark! she speaks: I will set down what comes from
No: first shall war unpeople this my realm,
That lived, that loved, that liked, that look'd
Why, this is the very same, the very hand, the very
Which he not dreams of.
respects, makes a beast a man, in some other, a man
I mean the learned ones, in Christian kingdoms
And make them blind with tributary tears:
me see, what think you of falling in love?
with a warrener.
But I have cause to pry into this pedant:
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
And your three motives to the battle, with
Brave me upon the watch, whereon it came
And by and by my master drew on him,
Fit to instruct her youth. If you, Hortensio,
You have done our pleasures much grace, fair ladies,
And bid that strumpet, your unhallow'd dam,
Which haply by much company might be urged:
Joy had the like conception in our eyes
heart, let that pass. By the world, I recount no
Foh! prithee, stand away: a paper from fortune's
He's not yet through warm: force him with praises:
To give him annual tribute, do him homage,
Should lose his birthright by his father's fault,
Thou hast not loved:
Or bid me go into a new-made grave
Exeunt severally
She was the fairest creature in the world,
Lysander and myself will fly this place.
Some enigma, some riddle: come, thy l'envoy, begin.
Half my love with him, half my care and duty:
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and SIR ANDREW
A man that ne'er saw in his life before.
Paris, Guysors, Poictiers, are all quite lost.
Cannot be heard so high. I'll look no more,
If then one is, or hath, or means to be,
Come down upon us with a mighty power,
You are a great deal abused in too bold a
But you, my noble lords, may name the time,
To the next abstinence: the next more easy,
The best persuasions to the contrary
You have a noble and a true conceit
Dost thou entreat me, Hector?
And cook to honest creatures: but 'tis not so,
Will praise a hand, a foot, a face, an eye,
Since I saw you last,
And since this business so fair is done,
Peace, ho!
And make my image but an alehouse sign.
Give me some ink and paper in my tent
Not he alone shall suffer what wit can make heavy
No, you shall paint when you are old.
Antony,
If that the heavens do not their visible spirits
To go about my preparation.
calendar of gentry, for you shall find in him the
I'll send him certain word of my success.
That Mowbray hath received eight thousand nobles
He was a gentleman on whom I built
And, as the president of my kingdom, will
More honourable state, more courtship lives
Trouble yourselves no further: pray you, hasten
Where is the duke my father with his power?
He's honest, on mine honour. God's blest mother!
With foul and violent tempest.
Of sky-aspiring and ambitious thoughts,
This is your devoted friend, sir, the manifold
Pluck'd four away.
He uses his folly like a stalking-horse and under
A merrier hour was never wasted there.
That, with the fusty plebeians, hate thine honours,
Takes off his false beard
But what, but what, come they to visit us?
requesting your lordship to supply his instant use
Some men are much to blame.
And welcome, general: and ye're welcome all.
She's limed, I warrant you: we have caught her, madam.
let's ha' some sport with 'em.
Which give some soil perhaps to my behaviors,
she's a virgin?
How found you him?
As I am made by my poor lord and thee!
that cry out on the top of question, and are most
What would you with the princess?
'So so' is good, very good, very excellent good, and
Wrench up thy power to the highest.
Christian and heathen, must be be-lee'd and calm'd
Make work upon ourselves, for heaven or hell.
person, kneeling at our feet, but a weak and
to prison! lay bolts enough upon him: let him
[Aside to RODERIGO]  Away, I say, go out, and cry a mutiny.
And that the French were almost ten to one,
Come, shall I make you two friends? We must to
Although you break it when your pleasure serves.
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
As ignorance made drunk. But yet, I say,
York set him on, York should have sent him aid.
For all the frosty nights that I have watch'd,
And question'dst every sail: if he should write
Come, Proteus, 'tis your penance but to hear
This way the coverlet, another way the sheets:
Do you mark that, my lord?
If I do line one of their hands? 'Tis gold
Say, the brave Antony.
The complaints I hear of thee are grievous.
And will at last break out into a flame:
cause is, calling both the parties knaves. You are
How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank!
With all my wits, my pains and strong endeavours,
In storms of fortune, for in her ray and brightness
My manly eyes did scorn an humble tear,
The shadow of your sorrow hath destroy'd
Why art thou patient, man? thou shouldst be mad,
'Tis very true: but that time offer'd sorrow,
wept for the death of a third husband. But it is
direct answer. To-morrow morning are to die Claudio
Can I go forward when my heart is here?
Or else the devil will make a grandsire of you:
Gerard de Narbon was my father,
And turns it to exile, there art thou happy:
Be singly counterpoised. At sixteen years,
One word in secret.
in place where, thou shouldst know it.
My wit untrain'd in any kind of art.
Till it o'er-run the stew, laws for all faults,
Will I make good against thee, arm to arm,
It is well.
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS, OPHELIA, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
O well done! I commend your pains,
These cates resist me, she but thought upon.
The French, my lord, men's mouths are full of it:
To CRANMER
Almost as like as eggs, women say so,
With the defunct, or sleep upon the dead.
Behold how like a maid she blushes here!
As though she bid me stay by her a week:
I will live in thy heart, die in thy lap, and be
Fixing our eyes on whom our care was fix'd,
Falstaff do in the days of villany? Thou seest I
That kneel'd unto the buds. Admit him, sir.
Were damnable.
O, Signior Balthazar, either at flesh or fish,
And I dare well maintain it with my life,
Enter RATCLIFF, with halberds, carrying RIVERS, GREY, and VAUGHAN to death
I thrice presented him a kingly crown,
You have broke it, cousin: and, by my life, you
'Tis told me, he hath very oft of late
No jewel is like Rosalind.
Spread o'er the silver waves thy golden hairs,
I am glad to see your worships well.
By this, I think, the dial points at five:
Which serves as paste and cover to our bones.
Whoever wins, on that side shall I lose
And I,--like one lost in a thorny wood,
Holding Corioli in the name of Rome,
A heart it was, bound in with diamonds,
And presently, I prithee.
This punk is one of Cupid's carriers:
That comes before his eye. This is a practise
Victorious Talbot! pardon my abuse:
He met me on the mart, and that I beat him,
With two pitch-balls stuck in her face for eyes,
Exeunt
Sir,--
If I stand here, I saw him.
A spirit I am indeed,
Which though myself would gladly have embraced,
For daring to affy a mighty lord
And show the heavens more just.
She shall not see me: I will ensconce me behind the arras.
I have been consul, and can show for Rome
And now by law, as well as reverend age,
Poor market folks that come to sell their corn.
Enter Constable
Chop off his head, man, somewhat we will do:
Her dowery wealthy, and of worthy birth,
Enter OCTAVIA with her train
And are the cities, that I got with wounds,
See, noble Charles, the beacon of our friend,
More ready to cry out 'Who knows what follows?'
thank my God it holds yet.
To end the one of us, and would to God
Safe at the Centaur, and the heedful slave
True, true, we are four.
Why, you are so fat, Sir John, that you must needs
Take heed, Signior Baptista, lest you be
Her will, recoiling to her better judgment,
The duke! Why, Warwick, when we parted,
Return us thanks.
My lord your son drew on my master.
The time right deadly, I beseech you, go.
I say 'tis copper: darest thou be as good as thy word now?
From my master, Sir Proteus, madam.
Of healths five-fathom deep, and then anon
There's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple:
Can make seem pleasing to her tender years?
You spurn me hence, and he will spurn me hither:
Go to Ventidius.
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past,
his wounds and tell us his deeds, we are to put our
Let it not sound a thought upon your tongue
My liege!
A needy, hollow-eyed, sharp-looking wretch,
it upon my death, I gave him this wound in the
Forage in blood of French nobility.
That cannot do that feat, you'll leave yourself
How say you, madam, are ye so content?
Before I be convict by course of law,
You four, from hence to prison back again,
Men of peace, well encountered.
And make a common of my serious hours.
My prisoner? or my guest? by your dread 'Verily,'
What is your difference? speak.
Contagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood,
That which upholdeth him that thee upholds,
Then, no, my lord. My suit is at an end.
The service and the loyalty I owe,
We therefore have great cause of thankfulness,
How came these things to pass?
Most disobedient and refractory.
For the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp,
Read the indictment.
Ay, to devour him, as the hungry plebeians would the
Enter CURTIS
As well as we! ay, and better too, we offend worse.
I stand for judgment: answer, shall I have it?
Is in his retirement marvellous distempered.
You beastly knave, know you no reverence?
Of many desperate studies by his uncle,
No, sir,'twas never my desire yet to trouble the
Was ever Scythia half so barbarous?
Padua affords nothing but what is kind.
Hum!
And younger hearings are quite ravished,
carbonado your shanks: draw, you rascal, come your ways.
These dangerous unsafe lunes i' the king,
such proverb so little kin to the purpose.
He was a wight of high renown,
I cannot choose
Whither?
He gave his honours to the world again,
Exeunt MACBETH and LENNOX
Between these swelling wrong-incensed peers.
Do you hear, ho? you must meet my master to
admiration? Impart.
against me,
crammed, as he thinks, with excellencies, that it is
prologues to a bad voice?
Is Silvia dead?
Whose mouth is cover'd with rude-growing briers,
Unless he seek to thrust you out perforce.
How should that be?
Worthy the note.
Should hold up high in brass, and such again
SCENE I. Rome. A street.
Exit
What can from Italy annoy us, but
That before you, and next unto high heaven,
Is Caesar's homager: else so thy cheek pays shame
Then, if thou grant'st thou'rt a man, I have forgot thee.
understand, the greater file of the subject held the
We do salute you, Duke of Burgundy,
Pray for me! I must now forsake ye: the last hour
'Murder!'
To prove him tyrant this reason may suffice,
ACT III
Come on, then, I will swear to study so,
Delivers in such apt and gracious words
And every godfather can give a name.
What say you? can you love the gentleman?
Repose you there, while I to this hard house--
What, what, what? let's partake.
Has these poor men in question. Never saw I
[To VIOLA]  There's no remedy, sir, he will fight
That glues my lips and will not let me speak.
that I may proceed in my speech.
But on us both did haggish age steal on
for though she's as like this as a crab's like an
[Aside]  A material fool!
Save yourself, my lord:
Of that unsatiate Edward, noble York
Employ thee then, sweet virgin, for our good.
I'll sweeten thy sad grave: thou shalt not lack
wits and bearing too? A pox o' your bottle!
To take the one the other, by some chance,
Thy drugs are quick. Thus with a kiss I die.
Four feasts are toward.
Ay, sir, all this is so: but why
Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
there, and you too, but my powers are there already.
Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
Than man could give him, he died fearing God.
Thereby to have defeated you and me,
Look out, and speak to friends: the Athenians,
More than I dare make faults. You few that loved me,
Be yoked with his that did betray the Best!
We'll light upon some settled low content.
He's sudden, if a thing comes in his head.
And heard a mermaid on a dolphin's back
I shall see thee, ere I die, look pale with love.
Did will what he did spend and spent not that
Is to come fairly off from the great debts
A prayer upon her grave. I'll not seek far--
Not black in my mind, though yellow in my legs. It
clean kept: for why, she sweats, a man may go over
I could interpret between you and your love, if I
Your wives shall welcome home the conquerors,
Does tire the ingener.
About the mount Misenum.
Under the Dauphin.
You should have ta'en the advantage of his choler
The blood I drop is rather physical
A thing slipp'd idly from me.
In this same interlude it doth befall
If she confess that she was half the wooer,
They say 'A crafty knave does need no broker,'
The plate, corn, revenues and moveables,
If thou dost, I shall never love thee after. Why,
The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry,
Who freely give to every one that comes
Go, I come, I come.
Enter three Watchmen, to guard KING EDWARD IV's tent
That Charles the Dauphin may encounter them.
Then turn your forces from this paltry siege
Of indigent faint souls past corporal toil.
The bitter past, more welcome is the sweet.
He straight declined, droop'd, took it deeply,
Must my sweet Nan present the Fairy Queen,
Lo, where he comes!
'Tis not our husbandry.
Exeunt
this true?
Enter VALERIA, with an Usher and Gentlewoman
Servant-monster! the folly of this island! They
Sweet York, sweet husband, be not of that mind:
Fits kings, as they are men, for they may err.
Against the non-performance, 'twas a fear
Take up those cords: poor ropes, you are beguiled,
Where is he? call him hither.
But learn my lessons as I please myself.
But I should think of shallows and of flats,
The view of earthly glory: men might say,
swarths: the best persuaded of himself, so
Plenty and peace breeds cowards: hardness ever
I'll overtake you. Speak.
As traitors do.
To think that Caesar bears such rebel blood
Re-enter GLOUCESTER
Strangers in court do take her for the queen:
Come, give me your flowers, ere the sea mar it.
No better term than this,--thou art a villain.
Be not found here, hence, with your little ones.
O noble prince, I can discover all
ACT IV
Exit Lady
Something wicked this way comes.
Stay, madam, I must speak a word with you.
By decimation, and a tithed death--
Have given myself the cause.
The king is present: if it be known to him
She was in love, and he she loved proved mad
Look where he comes.
Affliction is enamour'd of thy parts,
Come, bring us, bring us where he is.
Ay, amen!
His little speaking shows his love but small.
Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death,
Might thus have stood begetting wonder as
Or of a courtier, which could say 'Good morrow,
I know thou dost.
This airy charm is for, I'll break my staff,
having the world for your labour, tis a wrong in your
So, Ilion, fall thou next! now, Troy, sink down!
I'll do my best
Near to the town of Leicester, as we learn
If I demand, before this royal view,
Oft have I heard his praises in pursuit,
When they shall hear how we have play'd the men.
Are summer songs for me and my aunts,
In that word's death, no words can that woe sound.
Familiar as his garter: that, when he speaks,
But here comes Thurio: now must we to her window,
Out on thee, rude man! thou dost shame thy mother
So are we Caesar's friends, that have abridged
How full of valour did he bear himself
SCENE IV. York. The ARCHBISHOP'S palace.
No, Regan, thou shalt never have my curse:
Pointing to the Attendant who carries off LEPIDUS
I blush to think upon this ignomy.
And then awake as from a pleasant sleep.
And little of this great world can I speak,
And, like a Sinon, take another Troy.
If that my cousin king be King of England,
Mount you, my lord, towards Berwick post amain:
Deny your asking: take your choice of those
Enter YORK and BUCKINGHAM with their Guard and break in
But we keep whole by land. This speed of Caesar's
The Mouse-trap. Marry, how? Tropically. This play
Sends thee this word,--that, if thou love thy sons,
Exit
Infirmity doth still neglect all office
A city full, of tribunes, such as you,
There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
Nym, and Pistol.
And drink carouses to the next day's fate,
And all the gods go with you! upon your sword
Lay on our royal sword your banish'd hands,
imposed upon his father that sent him: or if a
Enough.
This bottle makes an angel.
O brother Montague, give me thy hand:
Enter VIOLA, MALVOLIO following
Heaven and thy thoughts are witness that thou art.
So is the dear'st o' the loss.
Against the senseless winds shalt grin in vain,
Of thousand friends, then in a moment, see
stones, by gar, he shall not have a stone to throw
As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine,
Till death be uttered,
Two kinsmen digg'd their graves with weeping eyes.
As they fly by them with their woven wings.
Says suum, mun, ha, no, nonny.
And find not her whom thou pursuest. Flow, flow,
I shall, between this and supper, tell you most
my disposition? One inch of delay more is a
Will not King Richard let me speak with him?
A sister driven into desperate terms,
Here she lies, sir.
The motto, 'In hac spe vivo.'
But I do not desire he should answer for me, and
and where they would be safe, they perish: then if
A natural and prompt alacrity
And so I do commend you to their backs. Farewell.
With that which he hath drunk to-night already,
Draws out his table-book
If he be gone, he'll make his grave a bed,
Witness all sorrow, that I know thee well
A traveller! By my faith, you have great reason to
You do the king my father too much wrong
You know him well?
Or the baring of my beard, and to say it was in
SCENE II. The same. Court of Pandarus' house.
From him I come
Why, lords, and think you not how dangerous
Which wrought to his desire.
That with our small conjunction we should on,
That whoso draws a sword, 'tis present death,
Yielded the town: he is retired to Antium.
Clifford of Cumberland, 'tis Warwick calls:
Speak, old AEgeon, if thou be'st the man
Then that, without the knowledge
Lies down
They do not mark me, and that brings me out.
[Aside]          O, 'tis too true!
But what of Cicero? shall we sound him?
Shall do a courtesy to our wrath, which men
That were impossible: but, I pray you both,
deserved praise on my palfrey: it is a theme as
Humphrey of Buckingham, I accept thy greeting.
Even such a husband
O lamentable day!
Exeunt
Her face was to mine eye beyond all wonder,
my errand,
One that made means to come by what he hath,
Heard you of nothing strange about the streets?
Mine eyes, even sociable to the show of thine,
How much they do to import, you would make haste.
most blessed condition.
Now, good my lord, give me the scope of justice
Read the will, we'll hear it, Antony,
I have sworn an oath that I will have my bond.
In which assault we lost twelve hundred men,
The violent fit o' the time craves it as physic
Now the hungry lion roars,
hence, and not a word, for here comes more company.
And all the haunt be ours. Come, Eros, Eros!
Upon his bad life to make all this good,
Unheedful vows may heedfully be broken,
To that I'll urge him: therefore thou shalt vow
May this be borne?--as if his traitorous sons,
Enter CLAUDIO, BEATRICE, HERO, and LEONATO
The deepest loathing to the stomach brings,
To liberty and not to banishment.
Exit Second Clown
To prove the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray,
Madam, what should I do?
Have loved it too: I would not change this hue,
Enter ROSS and an old Man
I will do so: till then, think of the world.
Ay, if you thought your love not cast away.
And this is more, masters, than you can deny.
Finish the process of his sandy hour,
SCENE V. Alexandria. MARK ANTONY's camp.
have before gored the gentle bosom of peace with
Enter a Servingman
And Jove forbid there should be done amongst us
And kept his credit with his purse,
comfort. She calls you, coz: I'll leave you.
DON
hither: here he does but repair it. I know he will
Now boast thee, death, in thy possession lies
Here love, thou see'st how diligent I am
For he can do no more than Caesar's arm
payment into ploughs, I warrant you.
two of the house of the Montagues.
Or well or ill, as this day's battle's fought.
That wounds the unsisting postern with these strokes.
Exeunt
'Tis she is sub-contracted to this lord,
Truly then I fear you are damned both by father and
I am no loathsome leper, look on me.
To propagate their states: amongst them all,
And in our name, what she requires, add more,
points in the which women still give the lie to
I am ashamed I did yield to them.
Are deeply indebted for this piece of pains:
But nature makes that mean: so, over that art
of the prison, give him leave to escape hence, he
That fair for which love groan'd for and would die,
To prison with her: and away with him.
Of liegers for her sweet, and which she after,
Except I be by Silvia in the night,
That have revolted wives, the tenth of mankind
In the extremity of great and little,
Young gentlemen would be as sad as night,
left to protest.
Shall have the leading of this foot and horse.
the grund for it, ay, or go to death, and ay'll pay
And now have toil'd their unbreathed memories
When we were chosen tribunes for the people,--
Change you colour?
here, Cassio,
Well, we will hear further of it by your daughter:
Good as the best. Promising is the very air o' the
Where bloody Tybalt, yet but green in earth,
For do but stand upon the foaming shore,
He's opposite to humanity. Come, shall we in,
By custom and the ordinance of times
The mutiny he there hastes t' oppress,
Enter CHARLES
within it, reclined on a couch. A barge lying
Could ever yet cut breath? Let no man mock me,
Ha!
That give you cause to prove my saying true.
sing. Come, more, another stanzo: call you 'em stanzos?
O nuncle, court holy-water in a dry
I am here already, sir.
I do desire no more.
And all the shrouds wherewith my life should sail
I sold not Maine, I lost not Normandy,
Music
As if this flesh which walls about our life,
I will perform it to enfranchise you.
Drum. Enter CADE, DICK the Butcher, SMITH the Weaver, and a Sawyer, with infinite numbers
And, Will you, nill you, I will marry you.
If he did not care whether he had their love or no,
Thou marshall'st me the way that I was going,
Lord cardinal, I will follow Eleanor,
only downright oaths, which I never use till urged,
And yet I know not how conceit may rob
The very principals did seem to rend,
coz, for he's in the third degree of drink, he's
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
A barren-spirited fellow, one that feeds
Than you expect: unseal this letter soon,
Were now the general of our gracious empress,
A banish'd traitor.
I buy a thousand pound a year: I buy a rope.
and therefore too much odds for a Spaniard's rapier.
That reigns in galled eyes of weeping souls,
Which when I saw, I reprehended them,
That now they are at fall, want treasure, cannot
That might relieve you!
Ay, my good lady, he.
What, Ariel! my industrious servant, Ariel!
The king will suffer but the little finger
should be hanged, I cannot imagine.
thought fit, through all Athens, to play in our
To a strong mast that lived upon the sea,
Poison hath residence and medicine power:
Their manners are so apish.
Is not his grace protector to the king?
Enter GOWER, before the temple of DIANA at Ephesus
When we are both accoutred like young men,
Here comes the lord.
Flourish. SATURNINUS courts TAMORA in dumb show
Each one, tripping on his toe,
Your son shall have my daughter with consent.
Exit CATESBY
The one's for use, the other useth it.
Great. Pompey, you are partly a bawd, Pompey,
One dowle that's in my plume: my fellow-ministers
Is torn from forth that pretty hollow cage,
The gentlest winds of heaven.
more of thy old body than I have done. Will they
fulfilled: she lifted the princess from the earth,
Enter a Messenger
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
Or else break out in peevish jealousies,
Exit
And lie full low, graved in the hollow ground.
Exeunt all except PRINCE HENRY and PETO
My troublous dream this night doth make me sad.
truepenny?
O God, seest Thou this, and bearest so long?
One pain is lessen'd by another's anguish,
But if you have a stomach, to't i' God's name:
For these two hours, Rosalind, I will leave thee.
'Besides, you waste the treasure of your time with
Cannot once start me.
Bringing me here to kill me.
I must, where is no remedy.
Are suitors to you.
By the worst means, the worst. For mine own good,
I will implore: if not, i' the name of God,
Strange things in hand, Master Brook! Follow.
Bequeathing it as a rich legacy
O, sir, we doubt it not.
resemble you in that. If a Jew wrong a Christian,
Mine honest friend,
I pray you, tell it.
As if thou then hadst shut up in thy brain
preposterous estate as we are.
Get you a place.
Of capital treason we arrest you here.
CLARENCE sleeps
You see how easily she may be surprised:
Most worthy gentleman, I and my friend
Peter, didst ever see the like?
As 'tis to laugh at 'em. My mother, you wot well
My Lord of Gloucester, I have too long borne
birth, beauty, good shape, discourse, manhood,
As reek o' the rotten fens, whose loves I prize
For such things in a false disloyal knave
Your sword or mine, or masterless leaves both
For France, for France, for it is more than need.
Fillip the stars, then let the mutinous winds
Or fill up chronicles in time to come,
That ever blotted paper! Gentle lady,
Your sauciness will jest upon my love
Thus high at least, although your knee be low.
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
Exeunt
How now! is Jack Cade slain?
Kin to Jove's thunder, so surprised my sense.
Which we do tender, as we dearly grieve
You hear all these matters denied, gentlemen, you hear it.
To dusty nothing, yet let memory,
For I did dream of money-bags to-night.
If with the sap of reason you would quench,
In the cradle where it lies.
Made suit to come in's presence, which if granted,
And be received for the emperor's heir,
are, you must have the patience to hear it.
Against yourself.
SCENE V. The same. Before SHYLOCK'S house.
It is your fault that I have loved Posthumus:
He plies the duke at morning and at night,
To justice, continence and nobility,
That cannot say as much. This is a subtle whore,
Some say the lark makes sweet division,
He will have other means to cut you off.
A Roman now adopted happily,
And with a look so piteous in purport
Hast stol'n it from her?
As I was banish'd, I was banish'd Hereford,
they never meet but there's a skirmish of wit
Hath placed thy beauty's image and thy virtue.
Alack the day, she's dead, she's dead, she's dead!
So are those crisped snaky golden locks
And the ebb'd man, ne'er loved till ne'er worth love,
Was given me by one that had some power,
Or ere I journey to your father's house.
Who mutually hath answer'd my affection,
Then, as you are as virtuous as fair,
I did but crave.
And melt in her own fire: proclaim no shame
A lioness, with udders all drawn dry,
In one of those same sheets.
Young Ned, for thee, thine uncles and myself
lost my crupper, with many things of worthy memory,
Containing the deposing of a king
The fatal balls of murdering basilisks:
Madding my eagerness with her restraint,
Andronicus, I do not flatter thee,
To the corruption of a blemished stock:
Damn'd in the first beginners!--gan to look
But sun it is not, when you say it is not,
That I regard it not.
You have done that you should be sorry for.
Those that Hobgoblin call you and sweet Puck,
How shall that faith return again to earth,
Then, dreadful trumpet, sound the general doom!
Now, my Lord Hastings and Sir William Stanley,
Readins, of Maidenhead, of Colebrook, of horses and
Let us take the law of our sides, let them begin.
Why, all his behaviors did make their retire
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
Did not I say he would work it out? the cur is
But, he away, 'tis noble.
So fare my limbs with long imprisonment.
Made me a counterfeit: yet my mother seem'd
I care not whither, for I beg no favour,
Art thou a messenger, or come of pleasure?
Are all I can return. Beseech your lordship,
Raise up the Montagues: some others search:
On some great sudden hest. O, what portents are these?
Not I, believe me.
Hortensio, to what end are all these words?
And shape his service wholly to my hests
I say, sir, I will detest myself also, as well as
Can scarce entreat you to be odd with him.
As thick as honeycomb, each pinch more stinging
Be silent, let's see further.
That with his name the mothers still their babes?
That in their kind they speak it: only sin
A bell rings
I will not fail: 'tis twenty years till then.
O mistress mine, where are you roaming?
Did see man die! scarce ever look'd on blood,
An if I have not, sir, I hope you have,
The senate hath stirr'd up the confiners
[Reads]  'By the Lord, madam, you wrong me, and the
me to wash your liver as clean as a sound sheep's
Outsells them all, I love her therefore: but
Blush that the world goes well, who rather had,
Enter SIMONIDES, reading a letter, at one door: the Knights meet him
DON ADRIANO DE
Thou darest as well be hanged.
such weak breath as this? No, you are deceived,
Who's there, I trow! Come near the house, I pray you.
Methinks I should not thus be led along,
With what's unreal thou coactive art,
That thou consent to marry us to-day.
You must prepare to fight without Achilles.
Go, go, my servant, take thou Troilus' horse,
Exeunt
Exeunt
the house with the narrow gate, which I take to be
And from this fellow? if we live thus tamely,
And well am like to do, for, I perceive,
[Beneath]  Swear.
And have an hour of hearing, and, by'r lady,
And on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood,
Lest it should burn above the bounds of reason.
Throws down his gauntlet
Yes, yes, he teaches boys the hornbook. What is a,
Dispose of them, of me, the walls are thine:
Your wife, my lord, your true
price of hogs: if we grow all to be pork-eaters, we
You may go to the devil's dam: your gifts are so
O, full of danger is the Duke of Gloucester!
And stay there, Dromio, till I come to thee.
Exeunt
hath great care to please his wife.
Was the first man that leap'd, cried, 'Hell is empty
ours, for we are the only love-gods. Go in with me,
Taken to wife: nor have we herein barr'd
Incertain lookers on. What were more holy
o' the coxcombs with a stick, and cried 'Down,
Playing the mouse in absence of the cat,
When you then were here,
In proof whereof, there is my honour's pawn,
Thou comest not to be made a scorn in Rome:
I came before you here a man prepared
that claims me, one that haunts me, one that will have me.
Exit
Which of the vizards was it that you wore?
O, never
My mind did lose it. But, Demetrius, come,
Exeunt. Flourish
most nearly appertains to us both. I think our
To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool,
You need not fear, lady, the having any of these
I hope no less, yet needful 'tis to fear,
Lord Timon, hear me speak.
discipline come not near thee! Let thy blood be thy
instrument you will, though you can fret me, yet you
God bless you, sir.
are they that hear their detractions and can put
These were her words, utter'd with mad disdain:
Well, sir, as you guess, as you guess?
Wherein thou liest in reputation sick,
Keeping some gold
When women cannot love where they're beloved!
The higher powers forbid!
certain that when he makes water his urine is
Arise, and take place by us: half your suit
Conjurers and sorcerers, that afraid of him
O Lancaster, I fear thy overthrow
Some officers take them away: good guard,
deceits: dat is de princess.
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups,
We sympathize: Jove, let AEneas live,
While summer-days do last. Ay me! poor maid,
An army cannot rule 'em.
Why to a public count I might not go,
Come, sir, it wants a twelvemonth and a day,
Exeunt
Enter CLOTEN and two Lords
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,--
And put yourself under his shrowd,
Even to their ships.
choice. Now, sir, this granted,--as it is a most
Cry 'Caesar!' Speak, Caesar is turn'd to hear.
And I have heard, you knights of Tyre
Prithee, keep up thy quillets. There's a poor piece
Should perish by the sword! And I myself,
Why hast thou thus adjourn'd
All covered dishes!
SCENE I. Padua. A public place.
There is no composition in these news
A mess of Russians left us but of late.
Exeunt
Receive him, then, to favor, Saturnine,
Against my crown, my oath, my dignity,
The head of a bodkin.
They have placed their men of trust?
Sorrow and grief of heart
And that you'll say, ere half an hour pass.
and wasteful learning, the other knowing no burden
For none abides with me: my joy is death,
And razure of oblivion. Give me your hand,
Why, 'tis this naming of him does him harm.
chez les narines de feu! When I bestride him, I
What, up and down, carved like an apple-tart?
BISHOP
Prithee, get thee in: would thou hadst ne'er been
Have done, for more I hardly can endure.
religious uncle of mine taught me to speak, who was
And pluck the mangled Tybalt from his shroud?
Commit a thing so monstrous, to dismantle
O, ho, monster! we know what belongs to a frippery.
To rouse a Grecian that is true in love:
Whoe'er helps thee, 'tis thou that must help me:
And for Rome's good. I'll tell thee what, yet go:
This dagger hath mista'en--for, lo, his house
Methinks it sounds much sweeter than by day.
they not malefactors?
without any malice, but to speak of him as my
And often at his very loose decides
Some offer me commodities to buy:
Here comes a member of the commonwealth.
Should lift their bosoms higher than the shores
Directive by the limbs.
Truly, sir, and pleasure will be paid, one time or another.
To let him there a month behind the gest
Why, cousin! why, Rosalind! Cupid have mercy! not a word?
Wars have not wasted it, for warr'd he hath not,
Fools are not mad folks.
Have power to bid you welcome. By your leave,
But pared my present havings, to bestow
And here's the heart that triumphs in their death
Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE on the top, thrusting out a torch burning
Thomas Cromwell,
To the hopeful execution do I leave you
to thirteen, this spirit walks in.
Where is the number of our English dead?
every mother's son, and rehearse your parts.
What answer, sir? when spake I such a word?
Of nature and of nations speak aloud
Accounted dangerous folly: why then, alas,
Was it not so?
Marry, I saw your niece do more favours to the
If thou dost bend and pray and fawn for him,
Dost thou here lie!
Or shall we beat the stones about thine ears?
And not as our confusion, all thy powers
To dream on evil or to work my downfall.
Trouble him not,
The action of good women: there is hope
Hear the ambassadors.
'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'
Under some biting error.
Abhor it, fear it, do not enter it.
valiant flea that dare eat his breakfast on the lip of a lion.
A parley with the Duke of Burgundy!
Fare you well.
De nails, madame.
hath ta'en thy life by some indirect means or other,
Exit
Ambassadors from Harry King of England
Lives not alone immured in the brain,
Meet in one line, and vast confusion waits,
So soon be drawn, nor did he think it meet
Ho! hearts, tongues, figures, scribes, bards,
So, the good horse is mine.
Niggard of question, but, of our demands,
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
For it was sometime target to a king,
Marcius, 'tis true that you have lately told us,
Pard to the hind, or stepdame to her son,'
Enclosed were they with their enemies:
As you feel doing thus, and see withal
Remember Margaret was a prophetess.'
There, and St. Nicholas be thy speed!
Go, bid her hide him quickly from the duke.
And yet runn'st toward him still. Thou art not noble,
To set the exact wealth of all our states
But they will pluck away his natural cause
And, all my powers, address your love and might
entrails were hairs, le cheval volant, the Pegasus,
Due reference of place and exhibition,
I promised we would be contributors
The lane is guarded: nothing routs us but
Nor by a hired knife, but that self hand,
was born to speak all mirth and no matter.
infect my brain, being the herdsmen of the beastly
ANTIPHOLUS
Whose life were ill bestow'd or death unfamed
morning, but as a madman's epistles are no gospels,
Those at her father's churlish feet she tender'd,
I'll have my bond, speak not against my bond:
Nay, rather persuade him to hold his hands.
Dies
talk of horse and armour?
And let her head fall into England's lap.
Ye must all see the queen, and she must thank ye,
to see thee well. Welcome, good friends. O, my old
Armado o' th' one side,--O, a most dainty man!
A dear happiness to women: they would else have
The very train of her worst wearing gown
I ne'er heard yet
For that they will not intercept my tale:
Why he's a devil, a devil, a very fiend.
Ay.
Would you had hit it too!
A gracious king that pardons all offences
Do you not hear me speak?
SCENE I. Before the castle.
And suffer you to breathe in fruitful peace,
This night to be comptrollers.
For the most gentle Claudio.
Your ignorance, which finds not till it feels,
Health and all happiness to my lord the king!
show you, which shall be yours in private. Your
No, nor look'd on us.
It is the best horse of Europe.
She moves me not, or not removes, at least,
There's nothing here that is too good for him
Where, after I have solemnly interr'd
They swirl asunder and dismember me.
privilege I have with the parents of the foresaid
The people mutinous, and it is rumour'd,
Edward will always bear himself as king:
For this I owe you: here comes other reckonings.
and an express command, under penalty, to deliver
Exeunt
What dost thou know me for?
Good your highness, patience.
You have a father able to maintain you,
Dogs! cowards! dastards! I would ne'er have fled,
By the luckiest stars in heaven: and, would your honour
That he seems rapt withal: to me you speak not.
hill, let him draw thee after. When a wise man
But lay down our proportions to defend
Nay, then, give him another staff: this last was
Contemn with mows the other, nor i' the judgment,
Cry 'Courage! to the field!' And thou hast talk'd
Ha, ha!
this dream: it shall be called Bottom's Dream,
NYM and PISTOL draw
Look, if my gentle love be not raised up!
Rise from the ground like feather'd Mercury,
SCENE IV. A British prison.
him. But to answer you as you would be understood,
Frozen almost to death, how he did lap me
And frame my face to all occasions.
but chiefly a villanous trick of thine eye and a
Tubal, a wealthy Hebrew of my tribe,
But mark, poor knight,
O noble English. that could entertain
But may not be so credulous of cure,
As I have read, laid claim unto the crown,
Crossing the sea from England into France,
of mine: how worthy he is I will leave to appear
For wise men are grown foppish,
They say, that they have measured many a mile
If we should serve with horse and mares together,
Be he unto me! this do I beg of God,
Mine innocent child?
Enter QUEEN, Ladies, and CORNELIUS
On me, that halt and am unshapen thus?
father and the gentlemen are in sad talk, and we'll
I'll keep mine own, despite of all the world.
Ignomy in ransom and free pardon
A boon, my sovereign, for my service done!
It is the most impenetrable cur
An hour or more, not meaning any harm?
are they gone, and there they intend to sup.
My lord, you take us even at the best.
Who am myself attach'd with weariness,
An honest tale speeds best being plainly told.
Be gone, I say: the gods have heard me swear.
hear your son was run away.
Never came reformation in a flood,
With measure heap'd in joy, to the measures fall.
Madam, I come to whet your gentle thoughts
that done, trudge with it in all haste, and carry
here but to thrash Trojans, and thou art bought and
Unless my study and my books be false,
Come down.
What say you of Kent?
coward on instinct. I shall think the better of
Indeed, he plied them both with excellent praises.
ACT V
'Tis call'd the evil:
Why thou departed'st from thy native home
I have spoke long: be pleased yourself to say
Then it is thus: the passions of the mind,
Good uncle, I beseech you, on my knees! beseech you,
other hour, I should derive much from't, for,
at no man's jests, eat when I have stomach and wait
In winter's cold and summer's parching heat,
This was not counterfeit: there is too great
if we were villains by necessity, fools by
Breathe you, my friends: well fought,
He's as tall a man as any's in Illyria.
Enter the Ghost of CAESAR
Lucius, save the child,
But tell the Dauphin I will keep my state,
'Odours,' 'pregnant' and 'vouchsafed:' I'll get 'em
O friar, the damned use that word in hell,
I know not, mighty sovereign, but by guess.
Our kinsman Gloucester is as innocent
cheese will do 't. There's my gauntlet, I'll prove
And in this resolution here we leave you.--
Peasant, unless thou give me crowns, brave crowns,
This maid will serve my turn, sir.
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
With things forgotten. Kind gentlemen, your pains
Some dreadful story hanging on thy tongue?
Upon the sisterhood, the votarists of Saint Clare.
But one that's here, and that's himself, for he
rotten apples! You may as well say, that's a
To whom God will, there be the victory!
came in foot and hand, and with a thought seven of
Exit
That angel of the world, doth make distinction
Spoke he of me?
Foh, foh! come, tell a pin: you are forsworn.
Smarting in lingering pickle.
Of watery Neptune, is now bound in with shame,
Hence, and shut your gates upon's.
Aside
Was once thought honest: you have loved him well.
If we and Caius Marcius chance to meet,
Ay, and the best she shall have, and my favour
My captain, and my emperor, let me say,
in my shirt.
The crown of Tyre, but he will none:
He's very likely now to fall from him,
O, know he is the bridle of your will.
excellent jests, fire-new from the mint, you should
That you might kill your stomach on your meat
Ay, madam, well, for I was bred and born
And I challenge law: attorneys are denied me,
Resolve my doubt. You twain, of all the rest,
For interim to our studies shall relate
Who cannot keep his wealth must keep his house.
My lord, I would that Thursday were to-morrow.
Like one that means his proper harm, in manacles,
knock, knock! Who's there? Faith, here's an
Besides, I met Lord Bigot and Lord Salisbury,
Thou shalt be logger-head. Good faith, 'tis day:
Sweet father, do so, set it on your head.
You wish'd us parties, we'll deliver you
Let every word weigh heavy of her worth
What black magician conjures up this fiend,
But if you hunt these bear-whelps, then beware:
Come, come, let us thither: this may prove food to
Than doth become a man. I will remain
Good Helicane, that stay'd at home,
That, face to face and royal eye to eye,
Hence, away! now all is well:
The devil damn thee black, thou cream-faced loon!
And with this hateful liquor temper it,
Take up this good old man, and cheer the heart
lieve be a condemned man.
Call thee to answer.
Room for the incensed Worthies!
My husband hies him home, where, heaven aiding,
Ay, and burn too.
him carried away, and, which is more, within these
What, Grumio!
My poor corpse, where my bones shall be thrown:
Lives in men's eyes and will to ears and tongues
Whither away! to save myself by flight:
Welcome, Iago, we must to the watch.
fire and water for such a kind heart. But yet I
A minister in his power. You know his nature,
Dear sir, forbear.
To speak your bosom freely.
As is a dead man's nose: but I do see't and feel't
So ridest thou triumphing in my woe.
Are near to Warwick by blood and by alliance:
I dream'd there was an Emperor Antony:
ACT III
'My lady's father'! my lord's knave: your
Enter GOWER
Is this the honour they do one another?
Whom I, with this obedient steel, three inches of it,
Who in a moment even with the earth
If I might beseech you, gentlemen, to repair some
I look'd toward Birnam, and anon, methought,
That they of Rome are entered in our counsels
questions in his accidence.
A drum now of the enemy's,--
may be said to be an equivocator with lechery:
But to the next highway, and there I left him.
is more, pensioners, but, I warrant you, all is one with her.
Against her will! good king, look to't in time,
For what?
scurvy, lousy knave, God pless you!
'hereafter' the kneading, the making of the cake, the
But with a grain a day, I would not buy
This touches me in reputation.
And pluck commiseration of his state
Wherefore a guard of chosen shot I had,
To others' eyes, nor doth the eye itself,
His health was never better worth than now.
O,
Thus stands the case: you know our king, my brother,
Be season'd with such viands? You will answer
How now, Dame Partlet the hen! have you inquired
Thy heart to find it. Is she with Posthumus?
Never, but once.
And reverend looker on, of two fair queens.
Sound, sound, sound, sound!
The special watchmen of our English weal,
There's Ulysses and old Nestor, whose wit was mouldy
Of their dead bodies!
We will make amends ere long,
To the Guard
not the man that he would gladly make show to the
My griefs cry louder than advertisement.
The nobility think scorn to go in leather aprons.
That she shall still be curst in company.
'Las, what's the matter? what's the matter, husband?
And is the bride and bridegroom coming home?
All follow this, and come to dust.
If I achieve not this young modest girl.
No masque to-night: the wind is come about,
This is that face, thou cruel Angelo,
O, cut my lace, lest my heart, cracking it,
But, for the handkerchief,--
How fares my lord? speak, Beaufort, to
Rights by rights falter, strengths by strengths do fail.
lie with his wife. Come to me soon at night.
Cassio, my lord! No, sure, I cannot think it,
forest lays claim to you.
To walk abroad, and recreate yourselves.
Though it do split you, for, from this day forth,
Exit
any in Italy, and as soon moved to be moody, and as
Thou wert but a lost monster.
That the sense aches at thee, would thou hadst
hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in little.
Being purged, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes,
If she were by, to hear you make the offer.
During the life, let us not wrong it dead.
Ay, my liege, so please you give us leave.
To draw with idle spiders' strings
I'll do the service of a younger man
to the country maid Jaquenetta:
As if it fed ye! and how sleek and wanton
From whence?
Using those thoughts which should indeed have died
With that, all laugh'd and clapp'd him on the shoulder,
Quail, crush, conclude, and quell!
Thou hast hit it: come, sit on me.
Consuming means, soon preys upon itself.
This speedy and quick appearance argues proof
With such deep contempt made I him king for this?
Exeunt the followers of SATURNINUS
Ha!
How often said, my dignity would last
He should have braved the east an hour ago
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays:
Without a prompter. Where will you that I go
Whose face between her forks presages snow,
he take leave, and presently after him.
have of late knocked too often at my door. I find
Exit
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
To gaze on Christian fools with varnish'd faces,
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
We cannot afford you so.
Even in these honest mean habiliments:
You take my house when you do take the prop
knocking out his brains.
To blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends,
Mark me.
I am amazed with matter.
sufferance. I see you are obsequious in your love,
See, then, thou fight'st against thy countrymen
Crowd to his presence, where their untaught love
I am, as thy general is.
Are hired to bear their staves: either thou, Macbeth,
That present medicine must be minister'd,
shall have a praise in present: we will not name
And hold her free, I do beseech your honour.
The bitter sentence of poor Clarence' death?
but the composition that your valour and fear makes
But it is doubtful yet,
A gallant knight he was, his name was Blunt,
The mighty gods defend thee! Thy lover,
Approach, thou beacon to this under globe,
And prays you to believe him.
Ay, sir, the sergeant of the band, he that brings
And said, 'Dear brother, live, and be a king'?
Which he shall have: I'll pay the debt,
They are in readiness.
To overtake thee. Would thou hadst less deserved,
So much from the understanding of himself,
such things as you, I can scarce think there's any,
Here is his cave.
Spake he so doubtfully, thou couldst not feel his meaning?
Farewell, sweet playfellow: pray thou for us,
There be many Caesars,
Which holds but till thy news be uttered,
In your embowell'd bosoms, this foul swine
How joyful am I made by this contract!
Sir, know you this glove?
in some form.
Hath suffer'd under praise.
To what tune pleased his ear, that now he was
No, we'll no Bullens. Speedily I wish
Upon his neck a mole, a sanguine star,
Hic et ubique? then we'll shift our ground.
What should I do? I confess it is my shame to be so
Marry, hang you!
Beats TRINCULO
Cleave in the midst, and perish.
give me sight of her, not only bought many presents
have none.
Make all our trumpets speak, give them all breath,
Jove knows I love: But who?
They that stand high have many blasts to shake them,
Exeunt
much out of quiet. For Monsieur Malvolio, let me
And, to deal plainly,
That if one break, the other will hold, or, if both
Enter Guard
No, that were pity:
For, meeting her of late behind the wood,
Do you so, sir? And was the duke a fleshmonger, a
So shaken as we are, so wan with care,
As we were sharing, some six or seven fresh men set upon us--
O, thus I found her, straying in the park,
Thee I'll rake up, the post unsanctified
And witness of the malice and displeasure
Who knows not that the noble duke is dead?
I prithee, who doth he trot withal?
ta'en you newly into his grace, where it is
What is the city but the people?
And here again, that I may rest assured
So cares and joys abound, as seasons fleet.
No, not an oath: if not the face of men,
The air of paradise did fan the house
Why, what should you fear?
Let it stamp wrinkles in her brow of youth,
As husbands have. What is it that they do
We do debase ourselves, cousin, do we not,
Receive the ring again.
He overtaketh in his pilgrimage,
So was I when your highness took his dukedom,
the web and the pin, squints the eye, and makes the
Anne Page is, at a farm-house a-feasting, and thou
If thou art fickle, what dost thou with him.
To be his groom: thou wert dignified enough,
Here's the challenge, read it: warrant there's
He searcheth his pockets, and findeth certain papers
The story then goes false, you threw it him
Let me be privileged by my place and message,
In seven short years, that here my only son
Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale
The sooner to effect what I intended:
And make this haste as your own good proceeding,
And then return and sleep within mine inn,
proclaims, shall be be set against a brick-wall, the
In way of marriage: therefore be advised.
qualities were level, Dian no queen of virgins, that
I grant you, friends, if that you should fright the
to the doors: watch to-night, pray to-morrow.
That hot rash haste so indirectly shed.
He's more secure to keep it shut than shown:
have your daughter covered with a Barbary horse,
Did triumph in my face, and they are fled,
Swear by my sword.
We stood to't in good time.
Doth thy other mouth call me? Mercy, mercy! This is
Yet you are curb'd from that enlargement by
Enter KATHARINA and BIANCA
ACT IV
The noble Brutus, thrusting this report
As I did stand my watch upon the hill,
By day's approach look to be visited.
To add unto his sickness? No, my Brutus,
bestowed that time in the tongues that I have in
purses go by the moon and the seven stars, and not
Fell sorrow's tooth doth never rankle more
Content you, gentlemen: I will compound this strife:
nothing but rail, nor no railing in a known discreet
Plant those that have revolted in the van,
The terrors of the earth. You think I'll weep
I love not to see wretchedness o'er charged
The height, the crest, or crest unto the crest,
is damned.
A Roman and a British ensign wave
At mine, sir, and theirs that love music.
Be now produced and heard.
We'll wait upon you.
For doughty-handed are you, and have fought
In hell-black night endured, would have buoy'd up,
write upon't, read it, afterwards seal it, and again
O, if thine eye be not a flatterer,
To whom with all submission, on my knee
That you have bid us ask his liberty,
Her gentlewomen, like the Nereides,
I summon your grace to his majesty's parliament,
That art to me as secret and as dear
'Give me,' quoth I:
If thou hadst said him nay, it had been sin:
You, mistress,
Stand, villain, stand, or I'll fell thee down. He
I will have more, or scold it out of him.
Belong you to the Lady Olivia, friends?
And profound Solomon to tune a jig,
When shall we three meet again
Preserve the king.
Come, let's hear, Jack, what trick hast thou now?
And the offender granted scope of speech,
Exit Romeo
In this uncivil and thou unjust extent
For to strange sores strangely they strain the cure.
An if thou couldst, thou couldst not make him live,
Or, at the least, make them his enemies.
What talkest thou to me of the hangman? if I hang,
A fool, sir, at a woman's service, and a knave at a man's.
Remaineth nought, but to inter our brethren,
What, are they in this pit? O wondrous thing!
Melt and lament for her.
Well, sir, good night.
Will money buy 'em?
could behold the sun with as firm eyes as he.
him a coward. And, I pray thee now, tell me for
bed, which bed, because it shall not speak of your
The bosom of my conscience, enter'd me,
Ay, we may march in England or in France,
One word, sweet queen:
O, look, Titinius, look, the villains fly!
The beauty of her person to the people.
Does show the mood of a much troubled breast,
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
Enter LUCIO
To whom?
Flourish of cornets. Enter the KING of France, with letters, and divers Attendants
They are then excused, my lord, when they see not
Equality of two domestic powers
And on it said a century of prayers,
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
I may be consul.
And to set on this wretched woman here
Who should attend on him? He makes up the file
Murder her brothers, and then marry her!
And spleen of speed to see your majesty!
Stay, sir king:
Let him be brought forth and borne hence for help.
Sir Topas, Sir Topas, good Sir Topas, go to my lady.
But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart,
the stile, this way.
Lest I might be too rash:
Of that dark hour. Resolve yourselves apart:
Richard, thy wife, that wretched Anne thy wife,
DON
he was rheumatic, and talked of the whore of Babylon.
was the very day that young Hamlet was born, he that
And tapers burn so bright and every thing
Commend me to my kind lord: O, farewell!
You sacrifice your tears, your sighs, your heart:
How many gentlemen have you lost in this action?
That could be found.
three and twenty years.
That give accosting welcome ere it comes,
But in a dream of friendship?
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  And so, my lord protector,
Will you go hunt, my lord?
Comes through commissions, which compel from each
likelihood than to see me at her chamber-window,
Upon some present business of the state
For thy best use and wearing.
What is the news?
To lock up honesty and honour from
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
Makes both my body pine and soul to languish,
The midwife wonder'd and the women cried
Despite of suit, to see a lady's face.
To base declension and loathed bigamy
How can she thus then call us by our names,
my sweet love?
Deservedly confined into this rock,
And this, Lysander, this Demetrius is,
If this inducement force her not to love,
May be call'd ransom, let it come: sufficeth
In iron walls they deem'd me not secure,
What dost thou say, Iago?
Thou hast painfully discover'd: are his files
Thetis, being proud, swallow'd some part o' the earth:
Infecting one another, yea, reciprocally--
That by direct or indirect attempts
'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
No more of this, it does offend my heart:
About surrender up of Aquitaine
God make your majesty joyful as you have been!
have heard it was ever his manner to do so.
And nothing can we call our own but death
Either accept the title thou usurp'st,
Pray you, stand further from me.
Ay, that there was, mine host, one that hath taught
your wife's wit going to your neighbour's bed.
Exeunt
Great sir, they shall be brought you to my house,
Only their ends
He is a craven and a villain else, an't please your
Unyoke this seizure and this kind regreet?
not take pity of her, I am a villain, if I do not
Think not that Henry shall be so deposed.
Sit, sir.
Nay, I care not for their names, they owe me
great abatement of kindness appears as well in the
It hath no end.
And in defence of my lord's worthiness,
Quoth she, before you tumbled me,
Come, my captain knows you not.
Yorkshire.
letter! Abhorred villain! Unnatural, detested,
her heart but the tyranny of her sorrows takes all
A fault on us, your tribunes, that we laboured,
Give me some token for the surety of it.
Mocks married men, for thus sings he, 	Cuckoo,
Till honour be bought up and no sword worn
Why stops my lord, shall I not hear my task?
A partial slander sought I to avoid,
believe thee,
He'll stop the course by which it might be known,
By Providence divine.
And be undone by 'em!
Or a dog, that seems a-sleeping:
Free, madam! no, I made no such report:
One, Kate, that you must kiss, and be acquainted with.
And she brings news, and every tongue that speaks
Shall be no shelter to these outrages:
Why, madam, have I offer'd love for this
They stand, and would have parley.
Thy commander, Achilles. Then tell me, Patroclus,
And teaches me to kill or hang myself:
No, sir, God forbid, but ashamed to kiss.
Being a Volsce, be that I am. Condition!
If in Naples
Transparent heretics, be burnt for liars!
With Charles, Alencon and that traitorous rout.
God's wrong is most of all.
And here comes Clifford to deny their bail.
Nor I, ungracious, speak unto myself
I'll love no friend, sith love breeds such offence.
Speak, captain, for his life, and I will thee requite.
And raze their faction and their family,
Would all those fatterers were thine enemies then,
Now, what news on the Rialto?
An actor too, perhaps, if I see cause.
Of many a bold one, whose kinsmen have made suit
They found the bed untreasured of their mistress.
'Tis not so dear, yet 'tis a life, you coin'd it:
Being thus crammed in the basket, a couple of Ford's
Day, night, hour, tide, time, work, play,
They had begun the play--I sat me down,
Well hast thou spoken, cousin: be it so.
'Nearest his heart:' those are the very words.
O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
Exit
For treason is but trusted like the fox,
Keep their fur dry, unbonneted he runs,
For folly that he wisely shows is fit,
Well, I will call Beatrice to you, who I think hath legs.
The duke be here to-night? The better! best!
I do beseech thee--
Pembroke, look to 't. Farewell, Chatillon.
into my note.
By Roderigo and fellows that are scaped:
The prenzie Angelo!
Were there no more but it.
Hast thou read truth?
My surveyor is false, the o'er-great cardinal
Freedom, hey-day! hey-day, freedom! freedom,
Their harness studded all with gold and pearl.
Let not a traitor live!
To doom the offenders, whatsoever they be
Your followers I will whisper to the business,
Is here attending: her business looks in her
Now to plain-dealing, lay these glozes by:
What page's suit she hath in readiness.
Myself disgraced, and the nobility
Unto young Hamlet, for, upon my life,
By violent swiftness, that which we run at,
For so he will'd it.
it, should dishearten his army.
Or sack this country with a mutiny.
do not doubt but to hear them say, it is a sweet
To rest awhile, some half an hour or so,
A most harsh one, and not to be understood without
Ah, villain, thou wilt betray me, and get a thousand
Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, and LEONATO
I answer you! what should I answer you?
the same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject
Why should this a desert be?
Will quicken, and accuse thee: I am your host:
Will you not, sons?
To buy his will, it would not seem too dear,
The Jew shall have all justice, soft! no haste:
Sing willow, willow, willow,
What means my niece Lavinia by these signs?
Rich men look sad and ruffians dance and leap,
Is but his steward: no meed, but he repays
You mistake, sir, you mistake, sir. Pray, what do
Then, good my lord, teach your cousin to consent winking.
Enter EROS with armour
Madman and beggar too.
That done, dissever your united strengths,
A most courteous exposition.
Know you the quality of Lord Timon's fury?
Passing these flats, are taken by the tide,
Listen to me, and if you speak me fair,
You have it full, Benedick: we may guess by this
And threat the glory of my precious crown.
Whether our kinsman come to see his friends.
To your worship's house, sir?
But she received my dog?
But now the blood of twenty thousand men
I love thee not a jar o' the clock behind
Who went with him to search Bassanio's ship.
Framed in the prodigality of nature,
suddenly call you, come forth, and without any pause
nothing, nuncle?
To line his enterprise: but if you go,--
Ay.
The loss of such a lord includes all harm.
And all to all.
And all the Greekish girls shall tripping sing,
And stay your coming to present themselves.
That do conspire my death with devilish plots
Held me in chase, that I was forced to wheel
And, if we thrive, promise them such rewards
Have not to do with him, beware of him,
I return, nay, I bear it on my shoulders, as a
The hard and soft seem all affined and kin:
should flout him, if he writ to me, yea, though I
That by degrees we mean to look into,
Some of his bastard blood, and in disgrace
I never more will break an oath with thee.
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
Whose boughs did bend with fruit: but in one night,
While I go to the goldsmith's house, go thou
A good note, that keeps you from the blow of the law.
To bear me company and go with me:
At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him:
never else cross me thus.
To those whose dealings have deserved the place,
Now in his life, against your holy oath?
But with a heart full of unstained love:
Exeunt
Why, then comes in the sweet o' the year,
Hast thou delight to see a wretched man
Should, if a coward heard her speak these words,
And here, to do you service, am become
The breaking of so great a thing should make
Of you, my noble cousin, Lord Aumerle,
As thou'rt a man,
deliver to Desdemona would half have corrupted a
Brother, I'll go and bring it thee.
and altogether against my will.
Now shall I see thy love: what motive may
furnished like a beggar, therefore to beg will not
Re-enter FABIAN, with MALVOLIO
Be sent for, to return from France with speed,
From Ravenspurgh haven before the gates of York,
Must he be then as shadow of himself?
Hail, Caesar! read this schedule.
And hides a sword from hilts unto the point
If I lose them, thus find I by their loss
But were I not the better part made mercy,
We stand up peerless.
I say, it is not lost.
An old man.
You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is--
SCENE I. A house in Rome.
It is the lark that sings so out of tune,
And, touched with choler, hot as gunpowder,
With your crown'd brother and these your contracted
I would they were, that I might die at once,
Large gifts have I bestow'd on learned clerks,
That bear in them one and the self-same tongue,
And I am Brutus, Marcus Brutus, I,
I know the hand: in faith, 'tis a fair hand,
easy it is to put 'years' to the word 'three,' and
Think you my uncle did dissemble, grandam?
by the ears? make haste, lest mine be about your
No, but the barber's man hath been seen with him,
epilogue, or to hear a Bergomask dance between two
Your uncle must not know but you are dead,
great, reasonable great: marry, for my part, I
At whose pleasure, friend
You heard what this knave told me, did you not?
And these, who often drown'd could never die,
The purple sap from her sweet brother's body
Faith, none for me, except the north-east wind,
Kent banish'd thus! and France in choler parted!
Suits not in native colours with the truth,
Through the ashes of my chance: wert thou a man,
flown, bird! i' the clout, i' the clout: hewgh!
Then I will kiss your lips, Kate.
Not rascal-like, to fall down with a pinch,
And simpler than the infancy of truth.
To his unmaster'd importunity.
In your dear highness' love.
Your laboursome and dainty trims, wherein
you may take him at your pleasure: I will be near
The winds of March with beauty, violets dim,
This tribute from us, we were free:
at Master Page's.
Master, go on, and I will follow thee,
First, of my word, therefore play, music. Prince,
Whom every thing becomes, to chide, to laugh,
Hath put himself in arms: the adverse winds,
need to be, virtuous enough, swore little, diced not
And make death proud to take us. Come, away:
Why, sir, I know her not.
To hold my very course. Prepare for dinner.
Cold news for me, for I had hope of France,
You shall look fairer, ere I give or hazard.
If die, brave death, when princes die with us!
Thy lands and all things that thou dost call thine
Some tricks, some quillets, how to cheat the devil.
Is in one mile: if they have measured many,
let not my letter.
Thou wast born to conquer my country.
From his ambitious finger. What had he
But what at full I know, thou know'st no part,
If he govern the country, you are bound to him
Help Salisbury to make his testament:
Prepare her ears to hear a wooer's tale
His son was but a ward two years ago.
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!
To crouch in litter of your stable planks,
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
But hark, a voice! stay thou but here awhile,
A short alarum
Even at his father's house, the old Andronicus.
O most dear mistress,
They cry 'Choose we: Laertes shall be king:'
Silvia: did not I bid thee still mark me and do as I
Not I, sir, you are my elder.
undiscovered. But 'tis all one to me, for had I
So hath thy breath, my dearest Thisby dear.
As if I did but only chew his name,
I will tell her.
together and thrown over the shoulders like an
spirit Percy, and that devil Glendower? Art thou
Directly to his good? Divinity of hell!
stray, for entering his fee-simple without leave.
Do so, good Messala.
Welcome, signior: you are almost come to part
Craving us jointly. Hie you to horse: adieu,
How now, ambitious Humphry! what means this?
By heaven, I think my sword's as sharp as yours:
That makes amends for her sour breath.
For sinking under them.
How long is't since?
To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind,
than a fellow, look you now, of no merits, he is
And bide the penance of each three years' day.
with a curtsy.
With one 'We thank you' many thousands moe
You shall hear one anon.
And cry 'Content' to that which grieves my heart,
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
To be revenged on Rivers, Vaughan, Grey:
Say, what beast, thou knave, thou?
But now, I do respect thee as my soul.
Englishman. Scurvy jack-dog priest! by gar, me
not by Fortune fall into the fire? Though Nature
To ALBANY
Exit
the guiltiness of my mind, the sudden surprise of my
That all the travellers do fear so much.
[Reads]  'To the unknown beloved, this, and my good
You kill'd her husband, and for that vile fault
He would not seem to know me.
We will not from the helm to sit and weep,
I saw him in the battle range about,
ANTIPHOLUS
What is it then to me, if impious war,
That my master was? no, forsooth: my master said
He was a man, take him for all in all,
The kings o' the earth for war, he hath assembled
It is more worthy to leap in ourselves,
Warwick and Talbot, Salisbury and Gloucester,
Please it your grace to be advertised
Though from an humble stock, undoubtedly
Have to the full appeach'd.
My lord, we will not.
And this you might have heard of here, by me,
And hold thee to my heart.
A loyal and obedient subject is
discords: here's my fiddlestick, here's that shall
Now will I in, to take some privy order,
[Aside to SUFFOLK]      If it do,
Before young Talbot from old Talbot fly,
So I were out of prison and kept sheep,
Nay, never lay thy hand upon thy sword,
For ancient quarrels, and quite lost their hearts.
What says your highness to my just demand?
What's the matter! there be four of us here have
Boy, what sign is it when a man of great spirit
Not Caesar's valour hath o'erthrown Antony,
Warble, child, make passionate my sense of hearing.
sir, will show whereuntil it doth amount: for mine
Much in our vows, but little in our love.
For being ignorant to whom it goes
The empress' sons, I take them, Chiron and Demetrius.
The beggar's nurse and Caesar's.
By the height, the lowness, or the mean, if dearth
A mellifluous voice, as I am true knight.
God pless your majesty!
Feed on her damask cheek: she pined in thought,
For these, these, tribunes, in the dust I write
Would I could answer
age of two and twenty or thereabouts! I am
The handle toward my hand? Come, let me clutch thee.
horn-pipes. I must have saffron to colour the warden
That I may see my shadow as I pass.
Why thou damnable box of envy, thou, what meanest
Marry, this is the short and the long of it, you
Fleeter than arrows, bullets, wind, thought, swifter things.
There would he anchor his aspect and die
merited, either in my mind or, in my means, meed,
Sleep thou, and I will wind thee in my arms.
It to be stirr'd, but oft have hinder'd, oft,
'Tis in grain, sir, 'twill endure wind and weather.
It is the lady that Pyramus must love.
And so, my lord protector, see them guarded
The sly slow hours shall not determinate
Exit
Till now I never knew thee!
You say, you'll marry me, if I be willing?
That stain'd their fetlocks in his smoking blood,
Wherefore eyest him so?
No, my lord.
stare him out of his wits, I will awe him with my
My heart laments that virtue cannot live
I cannot bid you bid my daughter live,
Exit an Attendant
Why lament you, pretty one?
Yet, I beseech you,
she herself, without other advantage, may lawfully
He and Aufidius can no more atone
Without the assistance of a mortal hand:
A' should not bear it so, a' should eat swords first:
Upon condition Publius shall not live,
Sir, it is the king's most sweet pleasure and
And if I do not by thy hand, thou art
kitchen-wench, marry, she had a better love to
Now is that noble vessel full of grief,
If virtue no delighted beauty lack,
'Twas but a bolt of nothing, shot at nothing,
I stabb'd your fathers' bosoms, split my breast.
To let the wretched man outlive his wealth,
[Aside to ARIEL]  Bravely, my diligence. Thou shalt be free.
Would they were multitudes, and on my head
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
And notwithstanding all her sudden quips,
My Lord of Westminster, be it your charge
Re-enter HELICANUS, LYSIMACHUS, and MARINA
Exit
All but new things disdain, whose judgments are
With the hell-hated lie o'erwhelm thy heart,
She loved them most.
What shall I say? to safeguard thine own life,
Whose western side is with a vineyard back'd,
clodpole. But, sir, I will deliver his challenge by
So Judas did to Christ: but he, in twelve,
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
small kindnesses from him, as money, plate, jewels
The time and my intents are savage-wild,
So far be distant, and, good night, sweet friend:
his lover, as a puisny tilter, that spurs his horse
it is the stubbornest young fellow of France, full
Our horses!
Therefore this article is made in vain,
A linguist and a man of such perfection
Then, good my liege, mistake me not so much
Alas, has banish'd me his bed already,
What the devil art thou?
O virtuous fight,
politician.
Embarquements all of fury, shall lift up
But then renew I could not, like the moon,
And snatch 'em up, as we take hares, behind:
Here.
And, farewell, friends,
Who, I, my lord I we know each other's faces,
Breathe I against thee, upon pain of life.
Thou look'st like him that knows a warlike charge:
laud them, I praise them.
The fundamental reasons of this war,
As heaven had lent her all his grace,
man against his will.
you have seen the sequel.
Of horrid hell can come a devil more damn'd
As snow in harvest. Thou deceivest thyself:
Wrath-kindled gentlemen, be ruled by me,
in his judgment that makes it.
No, to White-Friars, there attend my coining.
Lay comforts to your bosom, and bestow
What will you give us?
utter all to thee.
strong, or so.
Advise yourself.
put fire in your heart and brimstone in your liver.
Of lineaments, of manners and of spirit,
Yea, is the worst well? very well took, i' faith,
Henry the Fifth did sometime prophesy,
Well, I am standing water.
and delight to live in slavery to the nobility. Let
the middle and but one half of what he was
Becomes as aged, and doth beg the alms
SCENE II. The same. A hall in Timon's house.
What need one?
SCENE II. Bury St. Edmund's. A room of state.
When by the Archbishop of Canterbury
Pleased with this dainty bait, thus goes to bed.
Wert thou not banished on pain of death?
We have not yet set down this day of triumph.
With curses in her mouth, tears in her eyes,
My love, my life my soul, fair Helena!
Possess it, I'll make answer:
No further harm.
Goose, if I had you upon Sarum plain,
methinks they are such a gentle nation that, but for
Upon a courser, whose delightful steps
Coriolanus banished!
As thou hast made me by my dear lord's death!
Prithee, peace.
A good swift simile, but something currish.
From son to son, some four or five descents
shall I search the market?
Acquire too high a fame when him we serve's away.
I willingly obey your command.
action? do I not bate? do I not dwindle? Why my
There cannot be a pinch in death
could wish he would modestly examine himself, to see
Not he, I hope.
As benefits to thee, for I will fight
I ought to know of: and, upon my knees,
SCENE IV. The same.
Till youth take leave and leave you to the crutch.
Either this is the envy in you, folly, or mistaking:
I pray thee, good Mercutio, let's retire:
When the sweet breath of flattery conquers strife.
Many will swoon when they do look on blood.
I would cozen the man of his wife and do his service.
O, he has given example for our flight,
I have made my way through more impediments
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood,
Re-enter MARIA
On the fair daughter of rich Capulet:
The world's a huge thing: it is a great price.
Why dost ask that? I have forgot all men,
She shall undo her credit with the Moor.
What vane? what weathercock? did you ever hear better?
Not yet! no dance! Thus change I like the moon.
Upon this business my appearance make
Osric, who brings back to him that you attend him in
If ever sat at any good man's feast,
[Aside]  Perish, base prince, ignoble Duke of York!
Tell him I'll send Duke Edmund to the Tower,
Smiles at her news, while Warwick frowns at his.
arithmetic but her brain to set down her reckoning:
And thy fair virtue's force perforce doth move me
No sheep, sweet lamb, unless we feed on your lips.
For Warwick was a bug that fear'd us all.
If ever been where bells have knoll'd to church,
And stood against them, as the hope of Troy
Your love deserves my thanks, but my desert
say, when the age is in, the wit is out: God help
In such a righteous fashion as I do,
I would have 'voided thee, but in mere spite,
Till half an hour hence.
Would all were well! but that will never be
son the whole name of the war: he hath in this
Enter LONGAVILLE, with a paper
am I myself?
But that it bear this trial and last love,
Great Juno, comes, I know her by her gait.
Did I deserve no more than a fool's head?
backward: I am sure he had more hair of his tail
I will, my lord.
it, there is not one so young and so villanous this
The noble house o' the Marcians, from whence came
Re-enter AUTOLYCUS
this letter: the army of France is landed. Seek
Trumpets sound within
The native mightiness and fate of him.
The cause of his arrival here in arms:
Now marry in an instant.
By playing it to me with so sour a face.
He should or he should not, for he made me mad
Saw'st thou him enter at the abbey here?
To follow this fair corse unto her grave:
But, my daughter,
Humanity must perforce prey on itself,
And have prepared great store of wedding cheer,
A man that loves not me, nor none of you.
Falstaff's and our meeting, they will at once
Then, have I reason to be fond of grief?
Be executed by nine to-morrow morning:
My great profaneness 'gainst thine oracle!
Proclaim you are no less! Can you so stead me
No, Cassius, for the eye sees not itself,
'If not, let me see thee a servant still.'
pays you as surely as your feet hit the ground they
Exit DOLABELLA
Exit
Do, I prithee, but yet have the grace to consider
Where thou shalt find me, sad and solitary.
O'er borne i' the former wave: ten, chased by one,
Daughter, well met.
Give way to what's seen now! Sir, you yourself
For you, fair Hermia, look you arm yourself
Madam, I know not, nor I greatly care not:
But to be paddling palms and pinching fingers,
thought her spirit had been invincible against all
And she must not speak
Of beauty's tutors have enrich'd you with?
How will she love, when the rich golden shaft
You must begin, 'Will you, Orlando--'
My fair Bianca, bid my father welcome,
We do not throw in unrespective sieve,
Grave witnesses of true experience,
Scorn'd a fair colour, or express'd it stolen,
And had no help of anger: they were parted
Hie to the Goths, and raise an army there:
This morning, like the spirit of a youth
I'll to the Duke of Suffolk presently.
Methinks thou speak'st not well.
Such friends as time in Padua shall beget.
His judgment too.
Where on a sudden one hath wounded me,
alone again, I'll never wrestle for prize more: and
A thousand times the worse, to want thy light.
Enter HOLOFERNES, SIR NATHANIEL, and DULL
Up, princes! and, with spirit of honour edged
Take that of me, my friend, who have the power
There's beggary in the love that can be reckon'd.
My lord, I will be ruled,
To the end of generation!
hold up his head, as it were, and strut in his gait?
To seem to die ere sick: so please you, leave me,
But for your private satisfaction,
will depart unkissed.
The rest aloof are the Dardanian wives,
Come.
challenger's youth I would fain dissuade him, but he
Nothing may give us aid.
but his nose is executed and his fire's out.
as your gesture cries it out, when your brother
and thou art to post after with oars. What's the
How camest thou in this pickle?
home and to trouble you with no more suit, unless
O that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill!
He pageants us. Sometime, great Agamemnon,
Wool of bat and tongue of dog,
I know not yet.
Out upon you! what a man are you!
But like a comet I was wonder'd at,
Jesus bless us!
true prince may, for recreation sake, prove a false
Not a word of me. All that I will tell you is, that
otherwise, for your ill opinion and the assault you
Iago hath direction what to do,
When he doth run his course. Antonius!
Thy grandam loves thee, and thy uncle will
I make a broken delivery of the business, but the
their letters to meet me in arms by the ninth of the
I fear no uncles dead.
To Oxford, or where'er these traitors are:
Henceforward do your messages yourself.
And yet would herein others' eyes were worse.
Re-enter Servant
Your voices: for your voices I have fought,
Accept this scroll, most gracious sovereign,
Dispersed are the glories it included.
All his revenue.
Yea, but
or nine year: a tanner will last you nine year.
Ye lie, hostess: Bardolph was shaved and lost many
not how oft. Where be your gibes now? your
Thus, leaning on mine elbow, I begin,
We need more light to find your meaning out.
'The rugged Pyrrhus, like the Hyrcanian beast,'--
I bear i' the state, and nature does require
Dispatched! I'll make the best in Gloucestershire
Till Henry, surfeiting in joys of love,
Reigns in my blood and will remember'd be.
A man that languishes in your displeasure.
too was no good divinity. When the rain came to
Hast thou drunk well?
Yea, or the drone of a Lincolnshire bagpipe.
Honour and policy, like unsever'd friends,
And, for more slander to thy dismal seat,
Away, and mock the time with fairest show:
To ruminate on this so far, until
The stars above us, govern our conditions,
Then shall we hear their 'larum, and they ours.
Exit POLONIUS
Go thy ways, Kate:
And there assume some other horrible form,
'Pless you from his mercy sake, all of you!
Lead us from hence, where we may leisurely
With her her niece, the Lady Blanch of Spain,
Or any kind of light,
I moralize two meanings in one word.
Rush on his host, as doth the melted snow
I'll kiss each several paper for amends.
Have some unhappy passenger in chase.
Give me your hand, Orlando. What do you say, sister?
And that the Lord of Westmoreland shall maintain.
Nay, but how dearly he adores Mark Antony!
too hard for my wits and all the tribe of hell, thou
As thou shalt think on prating whilst thou livest!
Protector be, and God shall be my hope,
To have my pardon, trim it handsomely.
Will'd me to leave my base vocation
About relieving of the sentinels:
Re-enter Servant with boots
As being got, your father then in France,
And his achievements of no less account:
To help to take her from her borrow'd grave,
That have been so bedazzled with the sun
Come on, mistress: here's a gentlewoman denies all
We, as the spring of all, shall pay for all.
But not a thousand marks between you both.
designs, and of great import indeed, too, but let
Her faction will be full as strong as ours.
What good could they pretend?
Grant that, and then is death a benefit:
But mine shall be a comfort to your age.
Commend me to my brother: soon at night
Such fierce alarums both of hope and fear,
You do not hold the method to enforce
Save that, in love unto Demetrius,
Take this of me, Kate of my consolation,
cow short horns,' but to a cow too curst he sends none.
Now, go thy ways, thou hast tamed a curst shrew.
And why should Caesar be a tyrant then?
Enter AUTOLYCUS, singing
That you might well enjoy her.
argument? Now, if these men do not die well, it
Half of the number that King Priam had,
To grim Necessity, and he and I
you sing prick-song, keeps time, distance, and
The duke's in us, and we will hear you speak:
And go we, brothers, to the man that took him,
It is too general a vice, and severity must cure it.
What's he that speaks for Edmund Earl of Gloucester?
Then, good my lord, take to your royal self
'This is no flattery: these are counsellors
'Twill make us proud to be his servant, Paris,
And given to Lartius and to Marcius battle:
For if we too be one and thou play false,
That Lewis of France is sending over masquers
May stand more proper, my eye shall be the stream
Who hath for four or five removes come short
Because he doth not feel, feel your power quickly,
Lo, whilst I waited on my tender lambs,
Creatures that by a rule in nature teach
Find this grand liquor that hath gilded 'em?
There is occasions and causes why and wherefore in
Which he corrects, then were he tyrannous,
Drums and trumpets sounded. Enter MARTIUS and  MUTIUS, After them, two Men bearing a coffin  covered with black, then LUCIUS and QUINTUS. After  them, TITUS ANDRONICUS, and then TAMORA, with  ALARBUS, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON, AARON, and other Goths,  prisoners, Soldiers and people following. The Bearers set down the coffin, and TITUS speaks
SCENE I. Rome. Titus's garden.
You have congreeted, let it not disgrace me,
Lucius hath wrote already to the emperor
I fear too much rubbing. Good night, my good owl.
Where?
Enter CATESBY
Is fashion'd for the journey, dull and heavy.
I have got, in exchange of a hundred and fifty
Exeunt
Patience perforce with wilful choler meeting
And therefore must his choice be circumscribed
When articles too nicely urged be stood on.
the friend of France, for I love France so well that
Seem to break loose, take on as you would follow,
Due for a chain your husband had of him.
By all Diana's waiting-women yond,
The first departing of the king for Ireland.
Like a forlorn and desperate castaway,
Keep word, Lysander: we must starve our sight
Inform us of thy fortunes, for it seems
Divide in all with us.
Is it not like the king?
I do, my lord, and in her eye I find
But we will drink together, and you shall bear
Another of these students at that time
whole camp! or rather, the bone-ache! for that,
Should 'scape the true acquaintance of mine ear.
And tempt the rheumy and unpurged air
Procure me some access.
None of these rogues and cowards
Begin again
But like a foul mis-shapen stigmatic,
Unstate his happiness, and be staged to the show,
Privy to none of this. How will this grieve you,
To see his daughter, all his life's delight.
Before the gods my knee shall bow my prayers
Forthwith we'll send him hence to Brittany,
How now, my hearts! did you never see the picture
Do, child, go to it grandam, child:
Come I to speak in Caesar's funeral.
'Tis mine, and this will witness outwardly,
And hath detain'd me all my flowering youth
To nothing but despair. A thousand knees
Blow like sweet roses in this summer air.
Come not near our fairy queen.
Then fly. What, from myself?   Great reason why:
The city ports by this hath enter'd and
shall be humble. Few words to fair faith: Troilus
I love no colours, and without all colour
To follow me and praise my eyes and face?
In those freckles live their savours:
betwixt us: I have as much of my father in me as
Came from the north and thus it did import:
This juggling witchcraft with revenue cherish,
He came with flowers to strew his lady's grave,
As beaten hence by your strange lunacy.
And smelt so? pah!
Our purpose may hold there.
Of Cappadocia, Philadelphos, king
Rich in his father's honour, creeps apace,
Think me for the man I am, necessity
For being a bawd, for being a bawd.
Nay, 'tis most credible, we here received it
And brave attendants near him when he wakes,
That fill his ears with such dissentious rumours.
I was a man: all would not do. A plague of all
If the sea's stomach be o'ercharged with gold,
Was wrought by nature, not by vile offence,
His humble ambition, proud humility,
Good king, that must approve the common saw,
Hirtius and Pansa, consuls, at thy heel
And though it be allow'd in meaner parties--
To you, preferring you before her father,
Her to her chamber, that 'tis impossible.
That ever govern'd man.
[To HELENA]  The best wishes that can be forged in
Like twenty torches join'd, and yet his hand,
Why do you speak so startingly and rash?
And that hath dazzled my reason's light,
Well,
I am sorry for thy much misgovernment.
Did he not send you twain?
Good morrow to your lordship.
Enter OSRIC
Prosper you, sweet sir!
Let's hear our tribune: peace Speak, speak, speak.
Nay, but my letters, by this means being there
Re-enter Lords, with EXETER and train
And ye choice spirits that admonish me
Even so. Heaven keep your honour!
But you should pity me!
good, here's none will hold you. Their love is not
It is our trick, nature her custom holds,
He that ears my land spares my team and gives me
As Agamemnon and the hand of Greece
Some thousand verses of a faithful lover,
Prithee, do, Jack.
rehearse, though credit be asleep and not an ear
And make them keep their caves: since I was man,
Exeunt
Nay, good troth.
You will do aught, this shall you do for me:
Her widowhood, be it that she survive me,
So safely ordered that there is no soul--
Along with me: I'll see what hole is here,
And be my vantage to exclaim on you.
To please the palate of my appetite,
These thoughts of horror further than you shall
To have a look of such a worthy mistress.
I would have had them writ more movingly.
Master Barnardine!
As willingly do I the same resign
Re-enter BOULT, with the Pirates and MARINA
Be gone! I will not hear thy vain excuse,
With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
A noble temper dost thou show in this,
One of my place in Syria, his lieutenant,
Enter AMIENS, JAQUES, and others
Can we set eye on, but in all safe reason
An idiot holds his bauble for a god
To imitate them, faults that are rich are fair.
Exit POLONIUS
I am my father's heir and only son:
With fury from his native residence.
Or else depart, here all eyes gaze on us.
Enter Servant
Things won are done, joy's soul lies in the doing.
These happen'd accidents, till when, be cheerful
We might recover all our loss again,
Enter CLOTEN
For their own good and ours.
Look, sir.
The clothiers all, not able to maintain
Look on't again I dare not.
She soon shall know of us, by some of ours,
It is Biron's writing, and here is his name.
Thou, Leonatus, art the lion's whelp,
To her foul-tainted flesh!
let me have Claudio's head sent me by five. Let
I can o'ersway him, for he loves to hear
Which pries not to the interior, but, like the martlet,
So might your grace's person be in danger.
What was't to you?
honest a 'omans as I will desires among five
'Tis the king's subtlety to have my life.
Exeunt
[To FERDINAND and MIRANDA]  Give me your hands:
Come on't what will.
I could do this, and that with no rash potion,
That caves and womby vaultages of France
He gave the stablishment of Egypt, made her
The tender love I bear your grace, my lord,
By the bare scalp of Robin Hood's fat friar,
I would not care, I then would be content,
Enter three or four Servitors
I do beseech you, sir,
Of rare and proved effects, such as his reading
E'en such as you speak to me.
Of thine or mine, is most in Helena.
I pray you.
Nay, come, for if they do approach the city, we
Tell them, when that my mother went with child
offends me to the soul to hear a robustious
Will you undo yourselves?
Fie on thee, jolt-head! thou canst not read.
Confederate in the fact: ay, more there was,
As daylight doth a lamp, her eyes in heaven
A bastard son of Priam's.
Hang him, dishonest varlet! we cannot misuse him enough.
That one by one pursue: if you give way,
Marry, you are the wiser man, for many a man's
I'll fortune-tell you.
Be resident in men like one another
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
Italian master, Julio Romano, who, had he himself
The flatness of my misery, yet with eyes
Pray you, sir, stand up: I am sure you are not
I humbly thank your royal majesty.
To come abroad?
IMOGEN in bed, reading, a Lady attending
From such a noble rate, but my chief care
As after some oration fairly spoke
Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks,
Would you were half so honest!
Whiles you chid me, I did love,
Both more and less have given him the revolt,
'Tis Aufidius,
Look'd he or red or pale, or sad or merrily?
unclean fishpond of her displeasure, and, as he
What's your grace's will?
Those legs that brought me to a part of it!
so, so, so. We'll go to supper i' he morning. So, so, so.
able to lead her a coranto.
he was a wise fellow, and had good discretion, that,
Still serve him with my life. My dearest master!
Holds honour far more precious-dear than life.
Greater he shall not be, if he serve God,
fellow of it.
How in my strength you please. For you, Edmund,
To God, the widow's champion and defence.
Then give me leave to read philosophy,
Enter CHARLES, the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, JOAN LA PUCELLE, and forces
Successively from age to age, he built it?
If any friend will pay the sum for him,
And helper to a husband. But, O strange men!
As they fell out by time, by means and place,
That's verily. 'Tis best we stand upon our guard,
By him for whom these shames ye underwent?
The passion of loud laughter never shed.
Art thou not weary, John? how dost thou fare?
[Aside]	Two truths are told,
As may dishonour him, take heed of that,
Who goes there?
What is granted them?
Let it be lawful that law bar no wrong:
Too much to know is to know nought but fame,
Mingled his royalty with capering fools,
If it were damnable, he being so wise,
She'll take the enterprise upon her, father,
my intelligence is true, my jealousy is reasonable.
And many an error by the same example
And I with him, and many moe with me,
Are you a god? would you create me new?
It kept where I kept, I so dearly loved it,
fair weather that you make yourself: it is needful
His master thus.
Why should he, then, protect our sovereign,
And therefore is the glorious planet Sol
Where doth the world thrust forth a vanity--
I should not urge it half so faithfully.
Can you remember any of the principal evils that he
I will not take her on gift of any man.
armed and gone ere ye came to Ilium? Helen was not
another's dotage, and no such matter: that's the
And kill the bees that yield it with your stings!
circle. I'll go sleep, if I can, if I cannot, I'll
Writ o' both sides the leaf, margent and all,
Which were inshell'd when Marcius stood for Rome,
Because I will be guiltless of the meaning.
Help, masters!--Here's a goodly watch indeed!
you, I am of the church, and will be glad to do my
And, for my name of George begins with G,
Thy wit is a very bitter sweeting, it is a most
My arm is sore, best play with Mardian.
Have you forgot the Duke of Hereford, boy?
Is he alone?
After we part from Agamemnon's tent,
An't shall please your majesty, I never said nor
And favour of the climate. As by strange fortune
Let him not know't, and he's not robb'd at all.
What, will you walk with me about the town,
The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you: the
The meat it feeds on, that cuckold lives in bliss
Ha!
WINTER.
as they say, and know the world.
I do lament the sickness of the king.
My fault being nothing--as I have told you oft--
Exeunt
And when my face is fair, you shall perceive
Upon a homely object Love can wink.
God-a-mercy, that thou wilt believe me, but a
That livest to make thine honesty a vice!
How comes that?
Before the eyes of both our armies here,
Clifford, devise excuses for thy faults.
Enter ARIEL, invisible, playing solemn music
I would you would make use of that good wisdom,
To qualify in others: were he meal'd with that
Ay, and have been so any time these four hours.
By gar, 'tis good, vell said.
to swim in. Now a little fire in a wild field were
By me invested, he compeers the best.
These are the ushers of Marcius: before him he
As our best-moving fair solicitor.
Fare you well, gentlemen.
As worthy cause I have to fear I am--
You came not of one mother then, it seems.
Neither regarding that she is my child
Tell the empress from me, I am of age
The goodness of the night upon you, friends!
Why went you not with master doctor, maid?
Did grace our hollow parting with a tear.
What makes treason here?
So was I when your highness banish'd him:
That you may ruminate.
Which of you saw Sir Eglamour of late?
Let him that was the cause of this have power
She once being loof'd,
The truth on our side.
I made these wars for Egypt: and the queen,--
And once again proclaim us King of England.
Valentine's page, and sent, I think, from Proteus.
My heart fly to your service, there resides,
'Tis safer to be that which we destroy
For out o' doors he went without their helps,
Now, tell me, how do all from whence you came?
and therein am I constant to my profession.
I had rather seal with my death than repeat over
Even in their throats that have committed them.
What should you do, but knock 'em down by the
With her that hateth thee and hates us all,
That Margaret may be England's royal queen.
Flourish of cornets. Enter the KING, attended  with divers young Lords taking leave for the Florentine war, BERTRAM, and PAROLLES
Of Caesar seek your honour, with your safety. O!
You understand me not that tell me so:
It must be great that can inherit us
Does your worship mean to geld and splay all the
O, sir, she makes no doubt of that.
What answer makes your grace unto my suit?
And there cut off thy most ungracious head,
Being wanted, he may be more wonder'd at,
if not, thou art an Hebrew, a Jew, and not worth the
He shall have the skin of our enemies, to make
Then in the midst a tearing groan did break
And this distilled liquor drink thou off,
As to upbraid you with those kindnesses
Menas, I'll not on shore.
Are their males' subjects and at their controls:
[Aside]  And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience.
when she put 'em i' the paste alive, she knapped 'em
open ear, a quick eye, and a nimble hand, is
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
Form'd by the eye and therefore, like the eye,
Air
The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out
should I say to him? I was then frugal of my
By wasting ruin of the cruel foe.
Comb down his hair, look, look! it stands upright,
And won by rareness such solemnity.
Ay, Caesar, but not gone.
there's all the love they bear us.
O, sir, I can be modest.
And now to London all the crew are gone,
Take hold on me, for my particular grief
When time shall call him home from banishment,
Madam, be still, with reverence may I say,
How now, fair maid?
Since thou wert king--as who is king but thou?--
Nothing but a colossus can do thee that friendship.
To have mistrusted her: yet, O my daughter!
Bid sorrow wag, cry 'hem!' when he should groan,
Exit TYRREL
Thus do I ever make my fool my purse:
Enter Clown and FABIAN
To the disposing of the cardinal:
Strive to be interess'd, what can you say to draw
Come, come, you know I gave it you even now.
And from the common'st creature pluck a glove,
The kindred of the queen, must die at Pomfret.
O, ye're well met: the hoarded plague o' the gods
As much good stay with thee as go with me!
Nay, follow him, gentlemen, see the issue of his search.
As to the legitimate: fine word,--legitimate!
I am sent with broom before,
And yet I will not name it, and yet I care not,
'Thou maiden youth, be vanquish'd by a maid:'
On what condition stands it and wherein?
And since mine eyes are witness of her lightness,
Exeunt severally, HAMLET dragging in POLONIUS
Methinks your looks are sad, your cheer appall'd:
Worthy to be a rebel, for to that
Well, sir.
Though twenty thousand worthier come to crave her.
The foolish Fates.
I do but beg a little changeling boy,
Re-enter DON PEDRO
And makes it fearful and degenerate,
Shall this fellow live?
What would you do?
and view the Frenchmen how they fortify:
Held in contempt, whilst many fair promotions
I say, my daughter is my flesh and blood.
if she be mated with an equal husband?
I remember thine eyes well enough. Dost thou squiny
Twelve several times, and I have nightly since
thy mind is a very opal. I would have men of such
Let that go:
Aside
To put on better ere he go to church.
Great King of England and my gracious lord,
How fiery and forward our pedant is!
Health and fair time of day, joy and good wishes
Speak terms of manage to thy bounding steed,
My good lords, hitherto, in all the progress
Enter MONTANO and two Gentlemen
poor with begging.
And tells us, what occasion of import
By many hands your father was subdued,
SCENE I. Westminster. A street.
If it be you that stir these daughters' hearts
Those of his chamber, as it seem'd, had done 't:
was up so early: he cannot choose but take this
To blench from this and to stand firm by honour:
Whose warlike ears could never brook retreat,
Your majesty came not like yourself: you appeared to
To his own hand, in's bedchamber.
And to thy worth will add right worthy gains.
Was Tybalt's dooms-day, whose untimely death
Enter FENTON and ANNE PAGE
And ceremoniously let us prepare
All lost! to prayers, to prayers! all lost!
If thou consider rightly of the matter,
Delay this marriage for a month, a week,
That rounds the mortal temples of a king
How shall your houseless heads and unfed sides,
Because the king is certainly possess'd
Exeunt, fighting
claw no man in his humour.
Beating him
villain: she fetches her breath as short as a
If thou with Caesar paragon again
Come, go with me: I will go seek the king.
point. Four rogues in buckram let drive at me--
'Item, If any man be seen to talk with a woman
No, the world must be peopled. When I said I would
This is my birth-day, as this very day
The first and happiest hearers of the town,
Would even infect my mouth, I do forgive
Fools on both sides! Helen must needs be fair,
He is but mad yet, madonna, and the fool shall look
What, four? thou saidst but two even now.
SCENE V. Capulet's orchard.
'Scape being drunk for want of wine.
What is this
These miseries are more than may be borne.
If I must not, I need not be barren of accusations,
Exeunt
I came with Hermia hither: our intent
Wherefore was that cry?
By the very truth of it, I care not for you,
I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and
Pray you now, if it may stand with the tune of your
Even pushes 'gainst our heart: the party tried
Ungarter'd, and down-gyved to his ancle,
Before I have shook off the regal thoughts
Or else it must go wrong with you and me:
O, my pardon!
I am not prone to weeping, as our sex
Give him a statue with his ancestors.
His wife, his babes, and all unfortunate souls
Is that the worst this letter doth contain?
ANTIPHOLUS
Up, cousin, up, your heart is up, I know,
And to imperial Love, that god most high,
Tug for the time to come. This you may know
Sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin
Leaps to be gone into my mother's bosom.
Albeit I make a hazard of my head.
That ever I have felt.
Who dies, that bears not one spurn to their graves
And buy a rope's end: that will I bestow
proper cost and charges, without having any dowry.'
Hath borne his faculties so meek, hath been
HECTOR passes
Your brother he shall go along with me.
Heigh-ho! sing, heigh-ho! unto the green holly:
fingres, de mails--
Why, then let's home again. Come, sirrah, let's away.
Have wrought the easy-melting king like wax.
In this I'll be impartial, be you judge
Our equalness to this. Hear me, good friends--
Say, if my father render fair return,
people against the senators, patricians, and nobles.
Alas, she has no speech.
A gallant curtle-axe upon my thigh,
Turn out that eyeless villain, throw this slave
Take heed, for he holds vengeance in his hands,
Which never ceaseth to enlarge itself
Wanting a hand to give it action?
I know not, sweet: I found it in my chamber.
True hope is swift, and flies with swallow's wings:
But let not therefore my good friends be grieved--
To spoil the city and your royal court.
Marquess Dorset:
Under the surly Gloucester's governance?
Brother Antony,--
female,--which in the common is woman, which
carry, therefore is she better than a jade. 'Item:
Reads
Hence, villain! never more come in my sight.
Should be! should--buzz!
As merry as when our nuptial day was done,
To speak with you, may it please you to come down.
No, pray thee, let it serve for table-talk,
My dear master,
I trust ere long to choke thee with thine own
speak plain and to the purpose, like an honest man
hath given us wit to flout at Fortune, hath not
Bound me in servitude.
And thither will I straight to visit him:
Mine's not an idle cause: the duke himself,
Into a madman's rags, to assume a semblance
The soil's fertility from wholesome flowers.
Some tender money to me, some invite me,
Thieves! thieves!
Doth, like a poisonous mineral, gnaw my inwards,
way of waste, attempt us again.
So is the fame.
I will not sup to-night.
With linstock now the devilish cannon touches,
And fighting foot to foot.
Sleep, Richmond, sleep in peace, and wake in joy,
And princely care foreseeing those fell mischiefs
Of their dispatch.
'Slight, I could so beat the rogue!
Wherefore weep you?
I do.
There then, how then? what then? Let me see wherein
Tullus Aufidius then had made new head?
A plague of opinion! a man may wear it on both
sooner it wears. That thou art my son, I have
Of nature be corrupted through affection,
'Tis most strange,
Here they skirmish again
At my depart, these were his very words:
Will cheer me ever, or disseat me now.
He only, in a general honest thought
Fly not, for shouldst thou take the river Styx,
Were to remember that the present need
Nay, hear me, Hubert, drive these men away,
Exeunt
The treasury of life, when life itself
And was he not in England prisoner?
own defence?
What country, friends, is this?
No exorciser harm thee!
Be pitiful to my condemned sons,
'Tis so: and as war, in some sort, may be said to
To counsel deaf, but not to flattery!
I saw Jove's bird, the Roman eagle, wing'd
For Christian service and true chivalry,
This seems a fair deserving, and must draw me
'My father, not this youth.'
Do not draw back your hand, I'll take no more,
Who 'scapes the lurking serpent's mortal sting?
followed the arts!
And hedges his own way. But in this point
Within my age. But reason with the fellow,
good will to the maid?
We'll see what may be done, so you confess freely,
Under the hatches, the master and the boatswain
Thy bed, lust-stain'd, shall with lust's blood be spotted.
Nay, stay, Sir John, awhi le, and we'll debate
I'll raise the preparation of a war
thee the bucklers.
Exit, guarded
Sir, by your patience. If I heard you rightly,
Yes,
What is it, but to make thy sepulchre
How was it?
This above all: to thine ownself be true,
knaves in Kendal green came at my back and let drive
To CATESBY
I am too young, I pray you, pardon me.'
Red as 'twould burn Rome, and his injury
The morn that I was wedded to her mother.
Were still at odds, being but three.
Exeunt
By night frequents my house. I am a man
I am not treacherous.
Fortune brings in some boats that are not steer'd.
For he was great of heart.
Which thou shalt thereby reap is such a name,
Our inland from the pilfering borderers.
Or of the deadly seven, it is the least.
loves, and, I am proud, say, that my occasions have
Exit an Attendant
Demetrius, here's the son of Lucius,
Valance of Venice gold in needlework,
To beat us down, the which are down already,
That you shall all repent the loss of mine:
to his legs again?
Know, thou sad man, I am not Tamora,
Black, forsooth: coal-black as jet.
could not have owed her a more rooted love.
Whose honour and whose honesty till now
MARCUS and the Sons of TITUS kneel
I'll meet you at that place some hour hence.
Is shiny, and they say we shall embattle
Under the greenwood tree
My name is Constance, I was Geffrey's wife,
Nay, to thy mere confusion, thou shalt know
followers, for it appears by their bare liveries,
Too well, too well.
My lord, this would not be believed in Venice,
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
But men may construe things after their fashion,
Bear to my closet. Fare thee well, Pisanio,
Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice:
Come, sisters, cheer we up his sprites,
The ring was never hers.
Description cannot suit itself in words
Thinking on them, go I unto the Tower.
How you speak!
Had I before known this young man his son,
More than it is ere foul sin gathering head
But that of hand: the still and mental parts,
Saying, I liked her ere I went to wars.
Do not say so, Lysander, say not so
Further I will not flatter you, my lord,
Be bride to you, if you this assurance,
Nor the all-dreaded thunder-stone,
Here were a fairy.
A birth, and death?
Exit
Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
Did practise on my state, your being in Egypt
my apron: and, Will, thou shalt have my hammer:
That now I will have: that's the humour of it.
And in my voice most welcome shall you be.
Presumptuous priest! this place commands my patience,
But when I tell him he hates flatterers,
But she may learn, happier than this,
Enter CAPULET, with JULIET and others of his house, meeting the Guests and Maskers
Now thou art seal'd the son of chivalry?
My niece is horribly in love with a thing you have,
This is the latest glory of thy praise
Are gone, are gone:
false to him: do not you know of him, but yet go
Father, I charge thee, by thy reverence,
To any shape of thy preferment such
'Tis no matter! I shall speak as much as thou
Which is from my remembrance! Please you, farther.
Thy overflow of good converts to bad,
Will raise your highness such a mighty sum
Be cross'd with slowness, labour be his meed!
Bedford, if thou be slack, I'll fight it out.
Shall be struck off.' Hector, what say you to't?
Will this description satisfy him?
And in's spring became a harvest, lived in court--
Enter LUCIUS
Reft of his brother, but retain'd his name--
With what encounter so uncurrent I
'Tis good, sir: you are very short with us,
Sweet friends, your patience for my long abode,
To speak with Timon.
she kept it,
Soundly invite him--his two chamberlains
That thrust had been mine enemy indeed,
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
To your remembrances: but you have found,
love-song, the very pin of his heart cleft with the
Name her not now, sir, she's a deadly theme.
What is the remedy?
I'll plead for you myself, but you shall have
ready. By my troth, I am exceeding ill: heigh-ho!
behavior every where.
Now, if you are a maid, answer to this.
And would have kept so long as breath did last!
He says, my lord, your daughter is not well.
The pleasant garden of great Italy,
Well, sir, I hope, when I do it, I shall do it on a
you should enter, if your trade be to her.
Yea, there thou makest me sad and makest me sin
than legs, nor no more shoes than feet, nay,
Last thing he did, dear queen,
Our hands are full of business: let's away,
Since night you loved me, yet since night you left
I'll canvass thee in thy broad cardinal's hat,
When he perceived me shrink and on my knee,
I do repent me, read not my name there
Dismay'd not this
say to me now, an I were your very very Rosalind?
Why dost thou wrong her that did ne'er wrong thee?
And turn'd my captive state to liberty,
And in such eyes as ours appear not faults,
Why, I pray you?
As you in worth dispraise Sir Valentine.
Shall I try friends: you shall perceive how you
Would set me free from this unhallow'd place,
his fortune, his fortune! O, let him marry a woman
thinking, he would fain have had it. Then he
Have made themselves so strong:--for with her death
she was quartered. They fell on, I made good my
ensnare as great a fly as Cassio. Ay, smile upon
head, 'tis pride: but why, why? let him show us the
Vex not his prescience, be attentive.
I will be satisfied: deny me this,
Remembrance of my father-in-law, the duke,
Enter BIANCA
And, by just computation of the time,
ACT II
He shall not hear thee, or from Caesar's camp
It strikes where it doth love. She wakes.
There's not a nobler man in Rome than Antony.
Madam, my thanks and prayers.
Go sound the ocean, and cast your nets,
Arise to let him in: he is call'd up.
her coffin! No news of them? Why, so: and I know
And daughters of the game.
Content thee, prince, I will restore to thee
Ay, madam, you may say what sights you see,
Thou shouldst not have been old till thou hadst
Confirm'd by mutual joinder of your hands,
Sound trumpets! let our bloody colours wave!
O Antony!--Nay, I will take thee too.
That would I, had I kingdoms to give with her.
I cannot say the words.
Exeunt, leading KATHARINE
Hath been most sound: I charge you by the law,
Is this true, Pistol?
Servant, you are welcome to a worthless mistress.
News, lads! our wars are done.
Two other sons, who in the wars o' the time
To pray for them that have done scathe to us.
opinion of his rage, skill, fury and impetuosity.
ANTIPHOLUS
To reel the streets at noon, and stand the buffet
Now, ye familiar spirits, that are cull'd
Why are we met in council?
The one for ever earn'd a royal husband,
And I will call him to so strict account,
Stay, yet look back with me unto the Tower.
The king himself, who, Douglas, grieves at heart
Nay, a' rubs himself with civet: can you smell him
Therefore we will disperse ourselves: farewell.
Last in the field, and almost lords of it!
My lord, I do confess the ring was hers.
If your diligence be not speedy, I shall be there afore you.
your honour.
Thou stool for a witch!
Exeunt
A sight to vex the father's soul withal.
Nearer in bloody thoughts, but not in blood,
How much I had to do to calm his rage!
Enter POINS
Or any other ground inhabitable,
I hope, for my brother's justification, he wrote
As makes it light or heavy in the substance,
There's nothing level in our cursed natures,
a laced mutton, and she, a laced mutton, gave me, a
after my name, call them all Pandars, let all
Born out of your dominions, having here
Suffer them now, and they'll o'ergrow the garden
Well, seeing gentle words will not prevail,
In my mind's eye, Horatio.
Ay, a token from Troilus.
But for the end it works to. Come, our stomachs
My truth and honour firmly.
Which robs my tongue from breathing native breath?
Warwick, although my head still wear the crown,
In happy time, Iago.
Mistress Page, divulge Page himself for a secure and
They shake their heads
I stay too long: but here my father comes.
For that her reputation was disvalued
Think you so?
Farewell, my sons: see that you make her sure.
With character too gross is writ on Juliet.
Join with the present sickness that I have,
Provincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a
impossible places. Though what I am I cannot avoid,
that keeping for a gentleman of my birth, that
Be those with swords?
I could not miss my way: will poor folks lie,
penance: that fire-drake did I hit three times on
Expecting in return twenty for one?
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
Exit
As shall become your highness, where you may
Fillet of a fenny snake,
And not these bastard Bretons, whom our fathers
Were they his men?
Proclaim our honours, lords, with trump and drum.
for a great praise: only this commendation I can
Go, one of you, find out the forester,
Well, I shall be wiser.
Enter a Captain
And let my spleenful sons this trull deflow'r.
Doth from my senses take all feeling else
What, strike his wife!
Enter Chamberlain, reading a letter
But vows to every purpose must not hold:
Suppose this arm is for the Duke of York,
No countermand, no such example have we:
Lord Talbot, do not so dishonour me:
O, you hope the duke will return no more, or you
And did my brother Bedford toil his wits,
Though Birnam wood be come to Dunsinane,
What, my old worshipful old master? yes, marry, sir:
Hide not thy poison with such sugar'd words,
Madam,
thousand, here will be father, godfather, and all together.
Like man new made.
That from the prime creation e'er she framed.'
would, sir, as my father shall specify--
'Imprimis: She can fetch and carry.' Why, a horse
manhood, what an arrant, rascally, beggarly, lousy
Rich pearls upon thee.
To bring, uncle?
What appetite you have.
Speak then, prince Dauphin, can you love this lady?
Thou'rt mad to say it:
And here I will expect thy coming.
When she will take the rein I let her run,
You are very sensible, and yet you miss my sense:
What! loss of some pitch'd battle against Warwick?
Yet looks he like a king: behold, his eye,
Well, peace be with you, sir: here comes my man.
Even to affright thee with the view thereof.
Nay, he's at two hands with me, and that my two ears
For me, the ransom of my bold attempt
Appear'd to me last night, for ne'er was dream
Hector was gone, but Helen was not up.
with the story of the Prodigal, fresh and new. Go
All our service
As if the case were his.
Stay, stay thy hands! thou art an Amazon
Why, what a pox have I to do with my hostess of the tavern?
I mean, to go, sir, to enter.
You know there wants no junkets at the feast.
Here, Marcus, fold it in the oration,
Look, look! O heavy day!
Marry, sir, I come to your worship from Mistress Ford.
The thing which is flatter'd, but a spark,
How now, you secret, black, and midnight hags!
The sudden hand of death close up mine eye!
Ascend his throne, descending now from him,
Drones suck not eagles' blood but rob beehives:
To make an earthquake! sure, it was the roar
no stronger than the word of a tapster, they are
If I court moe women, you'll couch with moe men!
It is not my consent,
Though they be never so ridiculous,
mine honest neighbours shouted.
Enter ANGELO
protest unto thee--
Chi non ti vede non ti pretia.
boy. Now bless thyself: thou mettest with things
Like softest music to attending ears!
Are come to play a pleasant comedy,
Is't not enough thou hast suborn'd these women
Hast thou met with him? Send thy man away.
And there an end. But what say you to Thursday?
the world bitter to the best of our times, keeps
The day that she was missing he was here:
Wherein I sigh not, Julia, for thy sake,
Enter KATHARINE, Dowager, sick, led between GRIFFITH, her gentleman usher, and PATIENCE, her woman
good wine in thy master's way.
My lord, I neither can nor will deny
Widow! Charmian, hark.
Come, I'll to my chamber. Would there had been some
And call in question our necessities.
Thy business?
What piles of wealth hath he accumulated
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
of thought, conceived of spleen and born of madness,
Enter POMPEY
And apprehended here immediately
Look bleak i' the cold wind: withal, full oft we see
Extemporally will stage us, and present
I for a Clarence weep, so doth not she:
Had circumvention? 'Tis not four days gone
Will do's commission throughly: and I think
And this her easy-held imprisonment
I could not find him at the Elephant:
rightful heir to the crown?
boy, half French, half English, that shall go to
SCENE I. Troy. A street.
I say, O Caesar, Antony is dead.
Deliver it to Madam Silvia:
Why, in good time.
I hope, sir, you are, and I am yours.
Virgins on each side, CERIMON and other Inhabitants
My very worthy cousin, fairly met!
In haste, post-haste, are come to join with you:
He will awake my mercy which lies dead:
To break the heart of generosity,
In good set terms and yet a motley fool.
Nay, good my lord, put him to't, let him have his
Awake, and think our wrongs in Richard's bosom
Play'd for a pair of stainless maidenhoods:
We had not been thus shamefully surprised.
Vicious, ungentle, foolish, blunt, unkind,
That we the horrider may seem to those
Bell, book, and candle shall not drive me back,
Our children and our sins lay on the king!
Good sir, draw near to me, I'll speak to him.
For the best turn i' the bed.
Intelligent of our state, what hath been seen,
Exeunt Attendants
The raging rocks
Ha! o' my life, if I were young again, the sword
That reason wonder may diminish,
To make the sceptre his: these very words
That slanders me with murder's crimson badge.
Is his to use, so Somerset may die.
Like our strange garments, cleave not to their mould
As little is the wisdom, where the flight
Must be my convoy in the secret night.
Steed threatens steed, in high and boastful neighs
So sorrow's heaviness doth heavier grow
Enter FALSTAFF
Who marks the waxing tide grow wave by wave,
The Bastard of Orleans with him is join'd,
Which never dreamt on aught but butcheries:
I would have put my wealth into donation,
To-night in Harfleur we will be your guest,
Tell me, sweet Kate, and tell me truly too,
His bloody sword he brandish'd over me,
Give me a gash, put me to present pain,
Seem'd Athens as a paradise to me:
I will appear, and fight.
Before the king will grant her humble suit.
My lord, I have.
Forget to pity him, lest thy pity prove
I turn my glass and give my scene such growing
Ah, what a life were this! how sweet! how lovely!
I saw not better sport these seven years' day:
Then is the world one.
You might do much.
Dies
Hold, for your lives!
sigh gratis, the humourous man shall end his part
That Lucius' banishment was wrongfully,
Regent of love-rhymes, lord of folded arms,
Enter LUCILIUS, with three Strangers
If not, my senses, better pleased with madness,
And will not let me welcome this good news.
How will my wife for slaughter of my son
And that unbodied figure of the thought
'Zounds, I will speak of him, and let my soul
Want similes, truth tired with iteration,
The wealthy curled darlings of our nation,
Virginity being blown down, man will quicklier be
Antony call, I see him rouse himself
[Aside]  I know not what to say, my title's weak.--
Were like a better way: those happy smilets,
Stand in their ancient strength.
And these does she apply for warnings, and portents,
Should of another therefore be abused!
It reaches far, and where 'twill not extend,
Not so, neither, but I am resolved on two points.
The scene you play were mine. For instance, sir,
Three, they say: but 'tis thought of every one
love to the Moor,-- put money in thy purse,--nor he
Be not with mortal accidents opprest,
And bid Bianca make her ready straight,
Ere I ope his letter,
Worthily spoken, Mecaenas.
excessive grief the enemy to the living.
Came here to make us merry! and thou hast
And I will take thy word: yet if thou swear'st,
That York is most unmeet of any man.
The heart of Antony, Octavia is
You understand me, sir: so shall you stay
And thou, his yoke-fellow of equity,
Exeunt CLITUS, DARDANIUS, and VOLUMNIUS
How Falstaff, varlet vile,
Thrice-blessed they that master so their blood,
The proud control of fierce and bloody war,
nothing but the reward of a villain.
He talks to me that never had a son.
Faith, I will live so long as I may, that's the
Is left this vault to brag of.
thy praise.
From fairies and the tempters of the night
And dart not scornful glances from those eyes,
And further, I have learn'd,
impudent, embossed rascal, if there were anything in
The armipotent Mars, of lances the almighty
Is by the stern Lord Clifford done to death.
Be manly, and take comfort.
With some few bands of chosen soldiers,
In courtesy gives undeserving praise.
To blot out me, and put his own son in.
And writ as little beard.
As many other mannish cowards have
And do invite you to my sister's view,
The day is ours, the bloody dog is dead.
Whereof take you one quarter into France,
As thou report'st thyself, wast then her servant,
that resemble something in me,--Softly! M, O, A,
My mind exceeds the compass of her wheel.
as truly as a man of falsehood may.
They, that they cannot help: how shall they credit
Fit to be made companion with a king:
Change slander to remorse, that is some good:
The pine and cedar: graves at my command
Affected eminence, wealth, sovereignty,
O, here he is.
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
on his wife's frailty, yet I cannot put off my
Unto his lordship, whose unwished yoke
I think there's never a man in Christendom
What's o'clock, think you?
Who, in his circumstance, expressly proves
That still would manage those authorities
I doubt whether their legs be worth the sums
They shall no more prevail than we give way to.
should so dote on Signior Benedick, whom she hath in
Do prophesy upon it dangerously:
And a thousand fragrant posies.
No, sir: yet oft,
Till the last step have brought me to my love,
To this we swore our aid. But in short space
To mow down thorns that would annoy our foot,
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
Enter FENTON and Host
And fall upon the ground, as I do now,
This did I fear, but thought he had no weapon,
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
I cannot delve him to the root: his father
Tears of true joy for his return to Rome.
should speak truly, little better than one of the
I will fashion to fall out between twelve and one,
Unmasking
Who finds the partridge in the puttock's nest,
Truly, I have him: but I would not be the party
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech,
I'll wake mine eye-balls blind first.
Climb o'er the house to unlock the little gate.
As if an angel dropp'd down from the clouds,
Or till the Destinies do cut his thread of life.
So much she doteth on her Mortimer.
Your praise is come too swiftly home before you.
What is the reason of this terrible summons?
Remember it and let it make thee crest-fall'n,
presently, where, for one shot of five pence, thou
Sir,
Is bound in shallows and in miseries.
Yes, certain, there's a letter for you, I saw't.
Let us be jocund: will you troll the catch
Sir, he hath never fed of the dainties that are bred
Ay, leeks is good: hold you, there is a groat to
And whosoe'er gainsays King Edward's right,
Very well:
Well said, brazen-face! hold it out. Come forth, sirrah!
me, and take me, take a soldier, take a soldier,
I thank your ladyship, well, good madam.
I would I were a weaver, I could sing psalms or any
[Speaking together]  How now!
Heard, not regarded, seen, but with such eyes
SCENE I. The Forest of Arden.
gentleman that danced with her told her she is much
How now! what news from her?
--Handkerchief--confessions--handkerchief!--To
'Here follow her vices.'
If ever any malice in your heart
Gave Hector a gift, the heir of Ilion,
That, being a stranger in this city here,
horribly in love with her. I may chance have some
examined? let them come before master constable.
Your worship's friend and Launcelot, sir.
Must I not serve a long apprenticehood
is no man can tell what. Methought I was,--and
Her doors lock'd?
Were shame enough to shame thee, wert thou not shameless.
To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what
But rather make you thank your pains for it.
Before a sleeping giant.' Tell him so.
Look, sirs, if you can find the huntsman out
shall make it whole again, you shall piece it out
As thou dost, Antony, he hears no music,
Therefore stay yet, thou need'st not to be gone.
And keep eternal spring-time on thy face,
Must you, Sir John, protect my lady here?
Hark, how these instruments summon to supper!
So speedily can venge! But, O poor Gloucester!
Enter Lion and Moonshine
I am gone, sir,
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
O, this is full of pity! Sir, it calls,
O sir, the loathsomeness of them offends me more
All offices of nature should again
Is't possible, friend Licio, that Mistress Bianca
to herself: it is very true.
my eyes on thy picture. and my heart on thy every
Who keeps the tent now?
And, as she fled, her mantle she did fall,
You are well met, sir. You denied to fight with me
have them this morning examined before your worship.
As fester'd members rot but by degree,
Peruse this writing here, and thou shalt know
By his blunt bearing he will keep his word,
And what impossibility would slay
My lord. Griffith, farewell. Nay, Patience,
See that Claudio
Then I lie not.
him.
But now two paces of the vilest earth
How proud I am of thee and of thy gifts
A merrier day did never yet greet Rome,
Fair lovers, you are fortunately met:
DON
Are you good men and true?
The news of thy success, and when he reads
Add to my clamours! let us pay betimes
out of my love to you, I came hither to acquaint you
Full of wise saws and modern instances,
I shall discover all: I'll bring thee word
That thee may furnish and my prayers pluck down,
Stand!
When Caesar's head is off.
Which by us shall blessed be,
Thy element's below! Where is this daughter?
I do in birth deserve her, and in fortunes,
Which if we should deny, the most just gods
Thou sayest true, they're too unwholesome, o'
Stand close awhile, for here comes one in haste.
I must needs appear.
Could not with graceful eyes attend those wars
Even of the bonny beast he loved so well.
But, Warwick, after God, thou set'st me free,
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
Given order for our horses, and to-night,
And I his clerk, therefore be well advised
What ring gave you my lord?
He it is that hath
And I am sick when I look not on you.
Speak like a true knight, so defend thee heaven!
That swear'st grace o'erboard, not an oath on shore?
To bid his young son welcome to his grave?
Fall, and cease!
Why, my pretty youth?
Did not the one deserve to have an heir?
What is thy name?
To praise my noble act, I hear him mock
thought a good student, but to be said an honest man
Enter Soldier
O, say thou for her, who hath done this deed?
What will be said? what mockery will it be,
That the precipitation might down stretch
Yes, truly, for, look you, the sins of the father
This is a gentle provost: seldom when
Reads
beware instinct, the lion will not touch the true
Flourish
despite of the flesh and the blood.
To make this contract grow: but barren hate,
maggots: your fat king and your lean beggar is but
That nightly lie in those unproper beds
What seest thou?
Why, are all your beggars whipped, then?
Thy tempest-tossed body. How now, wife!
There shall your swords and lances arbitrate
And your experience makes you sad: I had rather have
boy's play here, I can tell you.
I will discharge thee.
The time is out of joint: O cursed spite,
Creating awe and fear in other men?
these eyes? I cannot tell, I think not: I will not
Hail to thee, worthy Timon, and to all
Pour'st in the open ulcer of my heart
With that face?
which is in the manner of his nurse, or his dry
New widows howl, new orphans cry, new sorrows
I thought to close mine eyes some half an hour,
We now present. Those that can pity, here
Re-enter ARIEL before: then ALONSO, with a  frantic gesture, attended by GONZALO,  SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO in like manner,  attended by ADRIAN and FRANCISCO   they all  enter the circle which PROSPERO had made,  and there stand charmed, which PROSPERO observing, speaks:
Run, boy, run, run, and seek him out.
Enter ROSALIND
Upward of twenty years, and have been blest
Exeunt
Which neither here I'll keep nor bear again,
And prostitute me to the basest groom
happily effected.
Reads
For following her affairs. Put in his legs.
Sirrah, your brother is legitimate,
Fulvia is dead.
Hold little faith, though thou hast too much fear.
his land comes to: he will not believe a fool.
Certainly
Quoth she, 'Here's but two and fifty hairs on your
There's an old woman, a fat woman, gone up into his
A dram of worth be drawn.
To Angelo
You amaze me, ladies: I would have told you of good
He hath no daughters, sir.
After this golden day of victory.
Heaven guard my mother's honour and my land!
Desires your visitation, and to be
Welcome, my good friends!
Your danger's ours.
Than when I first my wedded mistress saw
What, of my suit?
Good Maria, let this fellow be looked to. Where's
I did not give the lie. Out o' your
How now, fair shepherd!
But out upon this half-faced fellowship!
I am able to endure much.
Might you dispense with your leisure, I would by and
bolting-hutch of beastliness, that swollen parcel
Come short of what he did.
They know their master loves to be aloft,
And by those fearful objects to prepare
England, from Trent and Severn hitherto,
Is it new and old too? how may that be?
Exeunt
But break, my heart, for I must hold my tongue.
Therefore farewell, I see thou know'st me not.
For Italy and Caesar. More, Domitius,
Who to my father was a friend, to me
I think you know him, Master Doctor Caius, the
Imagine howling: 'tis too horrible!
Indeed, my lord, it follow'd hard upon.
am undone! I am undone! while I play the good
Marry, your manhood now--
Dismay not, princes, at this accident,
In the spring time, the only pretty ring time,
Evils enow to darken all his goodness:
Love, therefore, and tongue-tied simplicity
Rather than rob me of the people's hearts!
Let him alone, or so many so minded,
SCENE III. A room in Sempronius' house.
Petition us at home: Sextus Pompeius
Which the rather
If they deny him justice: twenty merchants,
SCENE III. The forest.
Of which I do accuse myself so sorely,
undermine you and blow you up.
cannot, give thanks you have lived so long, and make
Do so, and 'tis well.
Paris, you speak
your eyes, with your arms crossed on your thin-belly
Couldst thou save nothing? Didst thou give them all?
To taste the fruit of yon celestial tree,
bring forth this counterfeit module, he has deceived
So is he now in execution
Striving to better, oft we mar what's well.
All is the fear and nothing is the love,
Made good guard for itself.
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
Split'st the unwedgeable and gnarled oak
If to come hither you have measured miles,
Those that Macbeth hath slain.
Most mighty liege, and my companion peers,
Herod of Jewry dare not look upon you
In faith, I gave it to the judge's clerk:
No longer from head to foot than from hip to hip:
Do you know, sirrah, where Lieutenant Cassio lies?
If I would yield him my virginity,
I bought and brought up to attend my sons.
To load a falling man.
He never can meet more mischance than come
[To the BASTARD]  Cousin, away for England!
Say Warwick was our anchor, what of that?
to you, to set her before your eyes tomorrow human
In leaden contemplation have found out
With toss-pots still had drunken heads,
Legitimation, name and all is gone:
Enobarbus, Antony
Our radiant queen hates sluts and sluttery.
No, not a word, how can I grace my talk,
To-morrow, then, we will attend your grace:
Two of both kinds make up four.
I thank thee. Mariner, say what coast is this?
We do instate and widow you withal,
But if you fail, without more speech, my lord,
Rule in this realm, and the gored state sustain.
beard is less than a man: and he that is more than
Would serve to scale another Hero's tower,
And quicken his embraced heaviness
Aloud
And will with all expedience charge on us.
Inclined to this intelligence, pronounce
And bring away the armour that is there.
I take it, she that carries up the train
This Ipswich fellow's insolence, or proclaim
Here's the commission: read it at more leisure.
cabins: you do assist the storm.
My master calls me, I must not say no.
Have too a woman's heart, which ever yet
Why, this is an arrant counterfeit rascal, I
One on 's father's moods.
That eye my daughter lent her: 'tis most true.
To what infectiously itself affects,
And then they call'd me foul adulteress,
constable, and my name is Elbow: I do lean upon
Enter HUBERT and Executioners
To lay his gay comparisons apart,
And I'll request your presence.
the thunder would not peace at my bidding, there I
Your preparation can affront no less
Exit from the walls
Stands Scotland where it did?
The same.
daughter nor my sister, we are gone else. Sir, I
He did, my gracious lord, begin that place,
conscience take it.
I must show out a flag and sign of love,
We might proceed to cancel of your days,
And with the deepest malice of the war
best of 'em were hereditary hangmen. God-den to
We talk with goblins, owls and sprites:
Shall give a holiness, a purity,
To sit and witch me, as Ascanius did
[Aside]  Why, I were best to cut my left hand off
turn, therefore say what a paragon she is, and thou
A better wife, let him in nought be trusted,
Aloud
shall never laugh but in that maid's company! But
Look, what thou want'st shall be sent after thee:
Here lies the east: doth not the day break here?
saw.
Escaped the hunt. No port is free, no place,
Which breathed this poison.
And am her knight by proof.
Although they were flesh'd villains, bloody dogs,
In the seat royal of this famous isle?
I shall be counsell'd.
Come, sister. Dromio, play the porter well.
Had come along with me, but that his mistress
Witness the loving kiss I give the fruit.
hours since, and he was ever precise in
Unkindness blunts it more than marble hard:
And let them die that age and sullens have,
O monstrous treachery! can this be so,
I would his troubles likewise were expired,
Lives he, good uncle? thrice within this hour
Authorized by her grandam. Shame itself!
And as our vineyards, fallows, meads and hedges,
And to that end I shortly mind to leave you.
Hast thou forgot thyself? is it so long?
Sirs, take up the corse.
These present wars against the Ottomites.
Beg at the gates, like Tarquin and his queen.
Knowing that thou wouldst have me drown'd on shore,
I cry you mercy, 'tis but Quid for Quo.
Exit
So, so, come, give me that: this way, well said.
When all our offices have been oppress'd
What wilt thou do, renowned Faulconbridge?
Whose womb unmeasurable, and infinite breast,
So perttaunt-like would I o'ersway his state
By what safe means the crown may be recover'd.
Madam, he's gone to serve the duke of Florence:
Yet a tailor might scratch her where'er she did itch:
Exeunt LEONATO and Messenger
My lord protector's hawks do tower so well,
So I would not he should do me, my lord, lest I
So sways she level in her husband's heart:
absent,--and there shall appear such seeming truth
thou thimble,
Marshal the rest, as they deserve their grace.
Is not my sorrow deep, having no bottom?
If we offend, it is with our good will.
O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a
When heaven shall call her from this cloud of darkness,
Come, to this gear. You are a good archer, Marcus,
O seigneur! le jour est perdu, tout est perdu!
As I would do the gods. But, O thou tyrant!
God's benison go with you, and with those
And by the second hour in the morning
Will you vouchsafe with me to change a word?
Must bear my beating to his grave--shall join
Say, wherefore didst thou lock me forth to-day?
As men in rage strike those that wish them best,
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
fox, and for womanhood, Maid Marian may be the
May be the amorous count solicits her
On his behalf.
Or, naked as I am, I will assault thee.
Abound, as thick as thought could make 'em, and
And choke their art. The merciless Macdonwald--
For with a band of thirty thousand men
To please the king I did, to please myself
I took a costly jewel from my neck,
To know my deed, 'twere best not know myself.
We are coming thither: gracious England hath
Who died and left a female heir,
Here, father, take the shadow of this tree
[Aside]  I'll meet you at the turn. What a
What, all amort? Rouen hangs her head for grief
the request be fifty talents.
Let's see't. I will pursue her
For then I should not love thee, no, nor thou
Here's a stay
He'll wrest the sense and hold us here all day:
For we'll create young Arthur Duke of Bretagne
Stand like the forfeits in a barber's shop,
And seen the desolation of your streets:
When, Lucius, when? awake, I say! what, Lucius!
You'll make a mutiny among my guests!
That she'll demand: a ring the county wears,
And many strokes, though with a little axe,
With wit enough for thee.
Was gaged by our king, which had return'd
Do make their children blind,
The nature of your griefs, and whereupon
Obeying with my wind when I do blow,
Mark your divorce, young sir,
Pray you, take note of it: and when you have
behaviors to love, will, after he hath laughed at
Thither we bend again.
'Twill weep for having wearied you. My father
Advancing
Exit SERVILIUS
This staff of honour raught, there let it stand
To cull the plots of best advantages:
And yet I do thee wrong to mind thee of it,
O, 'tis a fault too too unpardonable!
I'll come by Naples. Draw thy sword: one stroke
Exit
Your wisdom in the deed.
Suffolk, what remedy?
For the Dauphin,
That thou nor none of thine shall be let in.
My tongue should to thy ears not name my boys
Lie there what hidden woman's fear there will--
O good sir, my master charged me to deliver a ring
this slaughter: besides, they have burned and
And when he sleeps will she do what she list.
See't shalt thou never. Fellows, hold the chair.
lief you would tell me of a mess of porridge.
You sign your place and calling, in full seeming,
Here, here she comes. I'll have a bout with thee,
Pray you, sir, do you know of this matter?
Why, let the stricken deer go weep,
They mean this night in Sardis to be quarter'd,
For how can tyrants safely govern home,
No more but so?
I could find in my heart to disgrace my man's
And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut?
He's married, madam.
My woeful self up in a mourning house,
And thou a prince, protector of this land,
Your vessels and your spells provide,
Wilt thou be daunted at a woman's sight?
But what talk we of fathers, when there is such a
Where goes Cesario?
Once touch my shoulder. Great the slaughter is
And very wisely threat before you sting.
an erring barbarian and a supersubtle Venetian not
Madam, he hath not slept tonight, commanded
Consent to pay thee that I never had!
I was a poor groom of thy stable, king,
The petty difference, we yet not know.
And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!
With such a suffering, such a deadly life,
Unfix his earth-bound root? Sweet bodements! good!
Enter GRANDPRE
Drives him beyond the bounds of patience.
'Tis not needed yet.
What's your name?
ANTIPHOLUS
Gave thee no instance why thou shouldst do treason,
The heavens give safety to your purposes!
Your lieutenant, if you list, he's no standard.
Have I been ever free, and must my house
Her tears will pierce into a marble heart,
But can you affection the 'oman? Let us command to
It is religion that doth make vows kept,
And flourishes his blade in spite of me.
The king, sir, hath laid, that in a dozen passes
Call him in.
[Within]  Away, you rogue, away! I am sleepy.
To see the general hunting in this forest?
But yesternight, my lord, she and that friar,
You wrong me every way, you wrong me, Brutus,
I hope my master's suit will be but cold,
The untented woundings of a father's curse
His hands were guilty of no kindred blood,
But you the best. Pages and lights, to conduct
Well, sweet queen. you are pleasant with me. But,
Then go with me to make the matter good.
Sextus Pompeius spoil'd, we had not rated him
Whom with my bare fists I would execute,
are wise and full of gibes and vlouting-stocks, and
All places that the eye of heaven visits
That quench the fire of your pernicious rage
That thought he could do more, a very little
therefore your grace may well say I have lost it.
stands the man, good, if the man go to this water,
What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to mend.
Came to my house and took away my ring--
It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden,
what we may be. God be at your table!
Yea, even I alone.
Commend me bountifully to his good lordship, and I
To have me out of Egypt, made wars here,
lady, dart thy skill at me,
Cries out upon abuses, seems to weep
and one Mordake, and a thousand blue-caps more:
O monstrous fault, to harbour such a thought!
Liar and slave!
night fourscore ducats.
For they account his head upon the bridge.
that he is?
You envy my advancement and my friends':
The more she gives them speech. Where do you live?
that, unless a man were cursed, I cannot tell what
the mountain of mad flesh that claims marriage of
Shall fall you for refusing him at sea,
That Caesar looks so sad.
A father and a friend to thee and Rome.
Have I here touch'd Sicilia and from him
have perceived a most faint neglect of late, which I
Tell her I have chastised the amorous Trojan,
And here from gracious England have I offer
And from the great and new-made Duke of Suffolk,
False-boding woman, end thy frantic curse,
It was not lent me neither.
Signior, it is the Moor.
You know my father hath no child but I, nor none is
We met here both to thank and to remember
Those men you talk of came into my mind.
This love of theirs myself have often seen,
When I said, banish him, I said 'twas pity.
Where is my lord protector? I have sent for these
has letters from the general, wherein he gives my
During the time Edward the Third did reign.
Which have for long run by the hideous law,
They only now come but to feast thine eyes.
Come, lead me to the block, bear him my head.
And one Deformed is one of them: I know him, a'
A creature unprepared, unmeet for death,
There is not work enough for all our hands,
Doubting thy birth and lawful progeny.
Thy natural magic and dire property,
May be she doth but counterfeit.
Confounds the tongue and makes the senses rough.
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM
Whose golden touch could soften steel and stones,
Exit BALTHASAR
No, Warwick, no, while life upholds this arm,
more clamorous than a parrot against rain, more
Now Warwick, tell me, even upon thy conscience,
I tell thee, Kate, 'twas burnt and dried away,
Sore hurt and bruised: the dreadful Sagittary
Be it by gins, by snares, by subtlety,
Touch me not so near:
Tripping up his heels
be, I will marry thee, and to that end I have been
I wrote him Imogen was slain: 'tis strange:
Exit, guarded
So please you,--
Of smooth civility: yet am I inland bred
Exit
It would be much vexation to your age.
John hath seized Arthur, and it cannot be
You're welcome: what's your will?
And, Richard, do not frown upon my faults,
Is quite beyond mine arm, out of the blank
tell us when we meet at supper: how thirty, at
opposite with a kinsman, surly with servants, let
Call'd you, my lord?
If she be false, O, then heaven mocks itself!
Nay, my good lord, let me o'errule you now:
If thou dost nod, thou break'st thy instrument,
Excellent wretch! Perdition catch my soul,
offered it to him again, then he put it by again:
And have no portion in the choice myself.
This oath I willingly take and will perform.
maintained that salamander of yours with fire any
Go with me to a notary, seal me there
it was mere foolery, I did not mark it. I saw Mark
At 'closes in the consequence,' ay, marry,
Lest, then, the people, and patricians too,
Myself and what is mine to you and yours
I remember
Of that and all the progress, more or less,
Witness the process of your speech, wherein
ACT II
And his succession granted Rome a tribute,
At what it did so freely? From this time
Away, for your relief! and we will live
at the gate?
Your brother Richard mark'd him for the grave:
to my mistress.
That every wretch, pining and pale before,
Either to get the town again or die:
I'll plant Plantagenet, root him up who dares:
Bear them from hence. Our present business
and for so much as I have perused, I find it not
drop and liquor fishermen's boots with me, I warrant
Thus, for my duty's sake, I rather chose
strange fowl light upon neighbouring ponds. Your
the Tower, to defend the city from the rebels.
There let them bide until we have devised
Peace then! no words.
That way the noise is. Tyrant, show thy face!
Who is thy lord?
So thrive I in my dangerous attempt
The which the gods protect thee from!--may
And die in music.
Fashion it thus, that what he is, augmented,
Away! they'll kill us.
to do the prince my master good, which who knows how
'Twas told me you were rough and coy and sullen,
Let it be so.
never shall come off, and show me a child begotten
What say you to this, sir?
Come to the pedlar,
And I am lowted by a traitor villain
Me seemeth good, that, with some little train,
Well, officer, arrest him at my suit.
O Corin, that thou knew'st how I do love her!
By so much shall I falsify men's hopes,
Pretty Ophelia!
SCENE I. France. The English camp.
To keep thee from the tempest of the field.
My tears shall wipe away these bloody marks,
That villain Hubert told me he did live.
the arm's end: I will here be with thee presently,
After distasteful looks and these hard fractions,
Here is her father's house, I'll call aloud.
give me, in your conscience, now?
should fall
How? the best?
I'll turn to sparks of fire.
That if again this apparition come,
And made us speak like friends: this man was riding
On either hand thee there are squadrons pitch'd,
Five men to twenty! though the odds be great,
If not to fight with foreign enemies,
COUNTESS
Did not offend, nor were not worthy blame,
A foe to the public weal: obey, I charge thee,
Enter APEMANTUS
come a little nearer this ways.
Of all the fair resort of gentlemen
Well then, your bond, and let me see, but hear you,
Upon your grace's part, black and fearful
Return the precedent to these lords again,
Say that he thrive, as 'tis great like he will,
May hang no longer on me: throw my heart
And call them pillars that will stand to us,
hobby-horses must not hear.
Do grow beneath their shoulders. This to hear
them plainly see't.
But that thy strange mutations make us hate thee,
Dost thou prate, rogue?
honest man, look you, and soon dashed. He is a
Came in strong rescue. Speak, thy father's care,
Into our city with thy banners spread:
husband'? None, I think, and it be the right husband
Their counsels and their cares, digest things rightly
When, both your voices blended, the great'st taste
Think you 'twere prejudicial to his crown?
Kneels
More feathers to our wings, for, God before,
Bid him set on his powers betimes before,
your grace, that he keep his vow and his oath: if
We make woe wanton with this fond delay:
Give me thy hand: thou shalt have a share in our
Second trumpet
Enter CAPHIS, and the Servants of Isidore and Varro
If you misdoubt me that I am not she,
Of what should stead her most?
Until to-morrow morning, lords, farewell.
If I do not usurp myself, I am.
of valour, and drive the gentleman, as I know his
Do you observe this, Hostilius?
You have discharged this honestly, keep it to
Do, good William.
Ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears,
Resign thy chair, and where I stand kneel thou,
Wears this war's garland: in token of the which,
indeed, know not their fathers and therefore have no names.
Is't possible that my deserts to you
Enter THALIARD
To the Senators
Welcome before the gates of Angiers, duke.
No, by my troth, not so much as will serve to
signs of leaping-houses and the blessed sun himself
Most piteous to be wild, I have dispatch'd in post
Being tasted, slays all senses with the heart.
What, would you bury him in my despite?
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
That he should come about your royal person
Why to give over, I pray you? is it a shame to get
And then, forsooth, the faint defects of age
The venom of such looks, we fairly hope,
Stand fair, I pray thee: let me look on thee.
love hath made thee a tame snake, and say this to
And where that you have vow'd to study, lords,
grief, in fine, made a groan of her last breath, and
Speakest thou from thy heart?
all the records of the realm: my mouth shall be
you.
[Reads]  'With a small compassed cape:'
truer than those that are so washed. How much
Much weightier than this work. The queen's in labour,
Most shallow man! thou worms-meat, in respect of a
With Clifford and the haught Northumberland,
You offer him, if this be so, a wrong
To beg of you, kind friends, this coat of worth,
Cannot, is false, and that I dare not, falser:
Duke Humphrey.
That unicorns may be betray'd with trees,
Music. The witches dance and then vanish, with HECATE
That bate and beat and will not be obedient.
A love-song, a love-song.
Holloa! what storm is this?
come to me and prings me pread and salt yesterday,
Peace, ho! Hear Antony. Most noble Antony!
The rather for I now must make you know
CURIO and Attendants retire
Offended us you have not, but the king.
Make battery to our ears with the loud music:
How many things by season season'd are
Exeunt DIOMEDES and CALCHAS
So was his will in his old feeble body.
Enter HERO, MARGARET, and URSULA
Envy and crooked malice nourishment
That nature's fragile vessel doth sustain
Whose hearts are absent too.
To the young Roman boy she hath sold me, and I fall
Upon which better part our prayers come in,
that time, and some say knives have edges. It must
By any token of presumptuous suit,
And as poor as Job?
Woe, that too late repents,--
This rest might yet have balm'd thy broken senses,
Swift, swift, you dragons of the night, that dawning
latter end and she must be blind too.
Haply, in private.
Here comes a man, let's stay till he be past.
be sworn, but love may transform me to an oyster, but
Shows like a riotous inn: epicurism and lust
Richard cried 'Charge! and give no foot of ground!'
your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't, it hath
Shall we refresh us, sir, upon your shore,
Accuse the thunderer, whose bolt, you know,
I heard you say that you had rather refuse
As that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.
A trifle, some eight-penny matter.
Light, I say! light!
By friendship nor by speaking.'
Go, go, up to the leads, the lord mayor knocks.
I wish no better
Is't Cade that I have slain, that monstrous traitor?
Enter PANDARUS and CRESSIDA
That I do groan withal. Thou art to die.
Exit
Music, ho! music, such as charmeth sleep!
So shall you feel the loss, but not the friend
How many women saw this child of his?
other: and she bade me tell your worship that her
Beelzebub? Here's a farmer, that hanged
I cannot tell, I fear 'tis choleric.
But with the aid of use.
Not too hot:
SCENE IV. Before GLOUCESTER's castle. KENT in the stocks.
Yet, poor old heart, he holp the heavens to rain.
The worthy Leonatus is in safety
What fear is this which startles in our ears?
Many a time hath banish'd Norfolk fought
Faith, we may put up our pipes, and be gone.
Trip away, make no stay,
house, and lands, and wife and all, from me.
Re-enter Attendant
Art thou damn'd, Hubert.
When I from France set foot at Ravenspurgh,
Must not in haste abuse--if it be true,
Have every pelting river made so proud
For nature, crescent, does not grow alone
By each at once her chappy finger laying
How now, my as fair as noble ladies,--and the moon,
Old Salisbury, shame to thy silver hair,
Of good and bad, that makes and unfolds error,
'Twas bravely done, if you bethink you of it.
And venture madly on a desperate mart.
them and a great cause, they should be esteemed
Yet, I persuade myself, to speak the truth
be won at last,
And let me use my sword, I'll make a quarry
Marry, if you would put me to verses or to dance for
Your servant and your friend,
And now, like Ajax Telamonius,
a tall ship lie buried, as they say, if my gossip
Thou darest not this and that to prove more fortunes
Shall be my brother, be he ne'er so vile,
Like a kind host, the Dauphin and his powers:
Now, sir, you speak of two
I think you are all mated or stark mad.
And to say so no more.
O, hardness to dissemble!--
Tellest thou me of 'ifs'?  Thou art a traitor:
rod of marshalship, a coronet on his head.
Did but convey unto our fearful minds
Thou speakest wonders.
in peace, the clown shall make those laugh whose
To make bad good, and good provoke to harm.
Which in myself I boldly will defend,
christened.
sympathy in years, manners and beauties, all which
O, this is the poison of deep grief, it springs
Try what my credit can in Venice do:
There is no more but so: say it is done,
If my shirt were bloody, then to shift it. Have I hurt him?
Which is the hot condition of their blood,
we must have your doublet and hose plucked over your
I go, my lord.
To make an envious mountain on my back,
He goeth down
Offer'st me brass?
A thing more made of malice than of duty:
ACT II
Exit PETER
very often like a knight, and, generally, in all
till they've swallowed the whole parish, church,
Decline your head: this kiss, if it durst speak,
O gross and miserable ignorance!
But say, I prithee, is he coming home? It seems he
Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, HENRY PERCY, and other Lords
O' my word, an she knew him as well as I do, she
Then, gentle Clarence, welcome unto Warwick,
And so of these. Which is the natural man,
Even that, I hope, which pleaseth God above,
You had musty victual, and he hath holp to eat it:
sir, I would prove--
my daughter.
money in thy purse. These Moors are changeable in
The man that makes his toe
And ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
Come hither to me, Master Elbow, come hither, Master
That rends the thorns and is rent with the thorns,
when we are old?
[Aside]  All will revolt from me, and turn to him.
Enter the Ghost of HASTINGS
To noble Edmund. I know you are of her bosom.
Gold were as good as twenty orators,
Come, then, let's go fight with them, but first, go
Attend you here the door of our stern daughter?
From first to last, the onset and retire
we bring him to our own tents. Be but your lordship
In speaking for myself. Yet, by your gracious patience,
The what?
Enter PISANIO
Had the full view of, such a noise arose
But as you shake off one to take another,
Go to the fellow, good Alexas, bid him
Good my liege,
always count you my deer.
Ha! 'Against my will I am sent to bid you come in
Fortune had left to both of us alike
Do you go back dismay'd? 'tis a lost fear,
This health to Lepidus!
Each man to his stool, with that spur as he would to
I,--
No, my good lord, but Pluto sends you word,
As we'll direct her how 'tis best to bear it.
Vile earth, to earth resign, end motion here,
The bruit is, Hector's slain, and by Achilles.
his wife, 'tis none of his own getting. Horns?
To the court of his eye, peeping thorough desire:
nobleman, and she sent him away as cold as a
The fresh green lap of fair King Richard's land,
Lavinia, though you left me like a churl,
Here comes Baptista: set your countenance, sir.
Exit
Presumes to reach, all thy whole heap must die.
Upon the heels of my presentment, sir.
Sweet father, cease your tears, for, at your grief,
To be a widow-maker! O, and there
Thou knowest not what it is.
This is the fool that lent out money gratis:
A time that lovers' flights doth still conceal,
Go, I'll to dinner: hie you to the cell.
resting here, accuses him of letters he had formerly
And say, 'Lo, there is mad Petruchio's wife,
This wine for Lepidus!
Hautboys playing loud music. A great banquet  served in, FLAVIUS and others attending, then enter  TIMON, ALCIBIADES, Lords, Senators, and VENTIDIUS.  Then comes, dropping, after all, APEMANTUS, discontentedly, like himself
Were it good, think you?
The queen is put in anger. You're excused:
As plain as I see you now.
And more than may be gather'd by thy shape.
world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me,
tell thee, I am as well in my wits as any man in Illyria.
But know I think and think I know most sure
Not from his mouth,
Thy state is the more gracious, for 'tis a vice to
And say 'What is't your honour will command,
And, gladly quaked, hear more, where the
That seeks to overthrow religion,
To cross my friend in his intended drift
Nay, what hope
Tut, I am in their bosoms, and I know
Let us die in honour: once more back again,
But every rub is smoothed on our way.
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain,
I should have known no less.
Since thou dost deign to woo her little worth
Give me.
And drown me with their sweetness. O, come hither,
For I will be thy beadsman, Valentine.
Looking the way her harmless young one went,
all my trumpery, not a counterfeit stone, not a
Doth live again in thee: long mayst thou live
Be quiet, people. Wherefore throng you hither?
I'ld give thee leave to hang it. Get thee gone.
Exeunt Salarino and Salanio
And so espoused to death, with blood he seal'd
He has strangled
Benedicite!
And that to-morrow you will bring it home.
Make thy demand.
When Hector's grandsire suck'd: he is old now,
Doth your highness call?
Time enough to go to bed with a candle, I warrant
And never seen thee, never borne thee son,
Who!--nay, then: come, come, you'll do him wrong
Exeunt
We are not furnish'd like Bohemia's son,
Art turn'd the greatest liar.
Which torments me to conceal. By villany
wear their plackets where they should bear their
I bid my very friends and countrymen,
Near to the walls, by some apparent sign
I am the sea, hark, how her sighs do blow!
on, have them still. O, my knave, how does my old lady?
The wall, methinks, being sensible, should curse again.
rather than hold three words' conference with this
And when the rage allays, the rain begins.
Embowell'd will I see thee by and by:
And though you think that all, as you have done,
Ay, my lord, even so
I have.
Are these things spoken, or do I but dream?
That metal, that self-mould, that fashion'd thee
That's more than we know.
but I dote on his very absence, and I pray God grant
How I may bear me here: my prime request,
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
I think I have done myself wrong, have I not?
But that the good mind of Camillo tardied
Mangling by starts the full course of their glory.
Speak, nephew, were you by when it began?
Or let us stand to our authority,
O foolish Cressid! I might have still held off,
And speak off half a dozen dangerous words,
Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?
You knew of his departure, as you know
For there will be a world of water shed
the dove, crowned with an earl's coronet.
[Aside to POMPEY]  If for the sake of merit thou
That same Biron I'll torture ere I go:
Our prayers do out-pray his, then let them have
For she had eyes, and chose me. No, Iago,
Many a groaning throe. Thus hulling in
She give it Cassio! no, alas! I found it,
Being the right idea of your father,
Were nothing but to waste night, day and time.
How can that be?
Tut, tut!
Ay, but I know--
My heart hath melted at a lady's tears,
Are arms to princes, and bring joys to subjects.
What, art mad? A man may see how this world goes
Resign to death, it is not worth the enjoying:
Her portion equal his.
And therefore may be broke without offence.
Each man apart, all single and alone,
Master, some show to welcome us to town.
Go in: and tell my lady I am gone,
SCENE I. London. QUEEN KATHARINE's apartments.
Him I forgive my death that killeth me
name, the which he hath used so long and never paid
Above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?
For Gloucester's dukedom is too ominous.
SCENE V. The same. A street near the gate.
[Sings]
Which was to my belief witness'd the rather,
father charged you in his will to give me good
The trumpets sound. They embrace, and exeunt
Amen, with all my heart!
To his unnatural purpose, in fell motion,
for her cradle ere she had a husband for her bed.
To lead 'em once again, and then let's dream
And thou shalt reign in quiet while thou livest.
mistress to carry me in the name of foul clothes to
Desire him to go in, trouble him no more
good masters.
Enter HORTENSIO
Ay, you did wish that I would make her turn:
Good morrow, brother Bedford. God Almighty!
would think his mother's milk were scarce out of him.
cousin will say so.
As this instructs thee, thou dost make thy way
If his chief good and market of his time
SCENE III. Warkworth castle
To hear a night-shriek, and my fell of hair
Had twenty years been made. This is a stem
'Tis, 'tis his fortune.
O treacherous villains!
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
Say, what art thou that talk'st of kings and queens?
[Aside]  He was an honest man, and a good
Or my divine soul answer it in heaven.
You must not be so quick.
you before me again upon any complaint whatsoever,
Nay, it will please him well, Kate it shall please
Has deserved prison, then abound in tears
How yet resolves the governor of the town?
O, me!
Let him know't.
In golden palaces, as it becomes.
which I will add
And thus she is deliver'd.
Come, Margaret, God, our hope, will succor us.
Is hack'd down, and his summer leaves all faded,
To do this outrage: and it now is done.
Stay, stand apart, I know not which is which.
For your fair safety, so, I kiss your hand.
For idiots in this case of favour would
all one, if he be but one knave. He lives not now
The earth hath swallow'd all my hopes but she,
Matter of marriage was the charge he gave me,
And I did laugh sans intermission
Enter LAUNCELOT, with a letter
Peace, and be still!
Ay, that's my boy! thy father hath full oft
true, without any slips of prolixity or crossing the
But Romeo's name speaks heavenly eloquence.
Is't possible you will away to-night?
Pass away frowning.
remembered, that such a one and such a one were past
We shall remain in friendship, our conditions
What's that?
To save your life in this extremity,
This ignorant present, and I feel now
tell what thou art by inches, thou thing of no
Or, if not so, thy noble heart to break:
Nor woo in rhyme, like a blind harper's song!
believing old signs: a' brushes his hat o'
A most incomparable man, breathed, as it were,
Here's sport indeed! How heavy weighs my lord!
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
With thy chaste eye, from thy pale sphere above,
If thou but think'st him wrong'd and makest his ear
Even daughter, welcome, in no less degree.
Therefore, lord constable, haste on Montjoy.
will thaw.
own fool's eyes peep.
O blessed breeding sun, draw from the earth
Not unlike, sir, that may be.
Says very wisely, 'It is ten o'clock:
Bring me unto my trial when you will.
Bearing their own misfortunes on the back
Caius, I am come to fetch you home. I am sworn of
Nay, look you, sir, he tells you flatly what his
Princes, it is too late to talk of love,
approves him an intelligent party to the advantages
As shall with either part's agreement stand?
It is, my lord.
That should deracinate such savagery,
Upon the grassy carpet of this plain.
Died he not in his bed? where should he die?
Writes me: 'That man, how dearly ever parted,
HOLOFERNES retires
Belike, for joy the emperor hath a son.
Why, is he not with the queen?
These women are shrewd tempters with their tongues.
Gloucester,
[Aside]            All the better: may
And that I'll prove on better men than Somerset,
As children from a bear, the Volsces shunning him:
I wonder on't, he was wont to shine at seven.
Upon this blasted heath you stop our way
Does not become a sword: thy great employment
If I be waspish, best beware my sting.
Bohemia stays here longer.
Who's there?
Fulvia thy wife is dead.
Patience, good sir,
I do confess much of the hearing it but little of
I am too sore enpierced with his shaft
Whose tongue more poisons than the adder's tooth!
Not by a public minister of justice,
Beheld his tears, and laugh'd so heartily,
Death, having prey'd upon the outward parts,
And yet I would that you would answer me.
Hold, sir, for God's sake! now your jest is earnest:
Of virtue was she, yea, and she herself.
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
Exeunt
[Aside to CELIA]  I will speak to him, like a saucy
By what rule, sir?
I pray thee, tell me then that he is well.
Here a' comes, and the Scots captain, Captain Jamy, with him.
The gods preserve you both!
To do I know not what: but it sufficeth
But Timon's silver treads upon his lip,
That, when the exigent should come, which now
His curses, then from bitterness of soul
Come, hold your peace.
O, I could wish this tavern were my drum!
to stay within: I like his money well. O, here he comes.
Stabs herself
performances are no kin together.
O'erblows the filthy and contagious clouds
As if the vicar meant to cozen him.
Thanks, Jupiter!
'Tis but fortune, all is fortune. Maria once told
But in the night or in the time of war.
thine ignorance makes thee away: farewell. When
He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
For his right noble mind, illustrious virtue
What the conditions of that league must be.
Re-enter LUCETTA
Exeunt BIANCA, KATHARINA, and Widow
I am sure I saw her wear it.
I had rather be in this choice than throw ames-ace
Pluck the grave wrinkled senate from the bench,
Anon do meet the senate.
That shall have cause to curse the Dauphin's scorn.
and what delight shall she have to look on the
bent against Caesar. If thou beest not immortal,
Should leave the helm and like a fearful lad
To the pot, I warrant him.
At many leisures I proposed.
From the four corners of the earth they come,
To cool this heat, a charm to calm these fits.
He asks of you, that never used to beg.
Where Scotland?
But, were I you, he never should be mine.
And this ditty, after me,
prayers, for, look you, the warrant's come.
our prains together to be revenge on this same
He is in Rome.
Most kind messenger,
Exeunt RATCLIFF and the other Attendants
See, see, what a man you are now!
Better it is to die, better to starve,
I am less proud to hear you tell my worth
own people.
And pray thee take this mercy to provide
Like the poor cat i' the adage?
And be in eye of every exercise
And firm for Doctor Caius, hath appointed
Except the marshal and such officers
Who loves another best.
O, my all-worthy lord!
This must not be thus borne: this will break out
And I did yield to him: but the next morn betimes,
As in a Romish stew and to expound
Wherefore did you so?
go and vetch me in my closet un boitier vert, a box,
What a coil's here!
My father, Earl of Cambridge, lost his head.
I prithee, call me. Sleep hath seized me wholly
Montano and myself being in speech,
Which break themselves in swearing!
We met him thitherward, for thence we came,
the sea or weather.
Should a villain say so,
If haply won, perhaps a hapless gain,
Take him over the costard with the hilts of thy
I am more serious than my custom: you
Rank of gross diet, shall be enclouded,
Make pale our cheek, chasing the royal blood
I am sure thou dost.
Nothing certainer:
Killing care and grief of heart
And will be partner of your weal or woe.
Enforce the present execution
Pointing at OSWALD
Shall be a wall sufficient to defend
ANTIPHOLUS
The king will venture at it. Either the cardinal,
What says the silver with her virgin hue?
we meet in the city, we shall be dogged with
His mistress' picture, which by his tongue
Concern me the reporting.
If, one by one, you wedded all the world,
Of all rejoindure, forcibly prevents
Exit GALLUS
Madam, yourself are not exempt in this,
I have bewept a worthy husband's death,
Nay, rather let me have it, as you are a false thief.
Exeunt OBERON, TITANIA, and train
What should he say, but as the cardinal?
'Tis the best brine a maiden can season her praise
His rigorous course, but since he stands obdurate
And have their palates both for sweet and sour,
I dreamt to-night that I did feast with Caesar,
make shift to go without him.
And skilless as unpractised infancy.
Enter MARCIUS
truly, he is very courageous mad about his throwing
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
My lord, your son was gone before I came.
Exeunt
May send forth plenteous tears to drown the world!
Where we do reign, we will alone uphold,
Here comes the lady: O, so light a foot
But with our sword we wiped away the blot,
Ran fearfully among the trembling reeds,
Would say your head and butt were head and horn.
bowels, thou!
Your husband so much sweat. Cominius,
A back-friend, a shoulder-clapper, one that
Good madam, be not angry with the child.
Hath caused his death: the which if wrongfully,
And yet I come not well.
His leg is too big for Hector's.
Bareheaded, lower than his proud steed's neck,
Some say he is with the Emperor of Russia, other
SCENE V. The same.
If for his tender here I make some stay.
fair thoughts be your fair pillow!
Sits smiling to my heart: in grace whereof,
And for your rapier most especially,
door would speak with you: he says he comes from
Hautboys. A small table under a state for CARDINAL  WOLSEY, a longer table for the guests. Then enter  ANNE and divers other Ladies and Gentlemen as  guests, at one door, at another door, enter GUILDFORD
I am here with thee and thy goats, as the most
Maintain no words with him, good fellow. Who, I,
With thy grapes our hairs be crown'd:
Drunk!
Most wisely hath Ulysses here discover'd
And in the Capitol and senate's right,
Patience, be near me still, and set me lower:
Told me, the king, provoked by the queen,
cozen somebody in this city under my countenance.
And not a hair upon a soldier's head
My herald is return'd.
Exit COSTARD, running
That either makes me or fordoes me quite.
'Tis York that hath more reason for his death.
Well, as time shall try: 'In time the savage bull
Till supper-time alone: while then, God be with you!
Were you the doctor and I knew you not?
are gone: crows and daws, crows and daws! I had
It is my soul that calls upon my name:
It was well done of you to take him at his word.
Keep in that mind, I'll deserve it.
The town is empty, on the brow o' the sea
O lord archbishop,
Enter LUCIO and two Gentlemen
would say so.
soldiers, the father of his son, nor the master of
Thou strokedst me and madest much of me, wouldst give me
But shall it be that you, that set the crown
begged. I have your alms: adieu.
Behold the wounds, the most unnatural wounds,
We will, my lord.
they swear in poetry may be said as lovers they do feign.
All tongues to talk their bitterest.
And he will look as hollow as a ghost,
That treason can but peep to what it would,
And I'll withdraw me and my bloody power:
That this is from some mistress, some remembrance:
And teach me how to curse mine enemies!